Label	ClipScreen	Im glad to have this camera it has everything comparable to canon t2  1080p movie 14.2 mp 502g light weight. 3 inch screen . i dont really mind the 230k dots screen its very bright and clear anyways compare to 900+ dots  . Screen	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Screen	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraScreen	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.Screen	 articulating LCD screen.Screen	 Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.Screen	The articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2iScreen	DigitalScreen	DigitalScreen	I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.Screen	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels.Screen	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraScreen	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.Screen	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.Screen	articulating LCD screen.Screen	Low resolution of LCD screen.Screen	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.Size	The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car. Size	It is a big seat especially rear facingSize	Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it inSize	I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient.Size	he seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car.Size	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infinitiSize	We started shopping around and figure that a 17in. wide infant car seat will doSize	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out thereSize	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out thereSize	I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all carsSize	 a little bigSize	Yes it is a big car seatSize	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infinitiSize	Big enough for a toddlerSize	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.Size	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge carSize	it is a big car seatSize	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small. Size	great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.Size	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge carSize	little smallSize	The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car. I currently live in Japan where my hubby is currently stationed with the USMC.  We drive a large van similar to the old Chevy Astro van.  This seat would onlt fit in the 2nd row in the middle seating position so that it came up almost through the 2 front seats.  I doubt this seat would fit into any other position in any car.  My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing. Between my 3 kids Ive been through about 6 different convertible car seats in the past 8 years and this one was by far the most difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt.  At one point or another Ive had to install all of my previous car seats rear facing with the vehicle belt.  The instructions say to lift the seat pad when threading the belt through which I did but then once the seat was installed I couldnt get the pad back down over the seat where it was against the seat back of the actual vehicle seat.  So I had to uninstall it and reinstall it with the pad in its proper place making it very difficult to do.Size	It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Size	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inSize	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwardsSize	Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do.Size	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Size	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.Size	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Size	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.Size	I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars.Size	work for newbornsSize	we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Size	The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Size	  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs Size	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerSize	Big enough for a toddlerSize	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy. Size	Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra. As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once.Size	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car. Size	 its a very tight space to use the light blue head rests shown in the listing picture.Size	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti.Size	The size is pretty bigSize	It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels.Size	We started shopping around and figure that a 17in. wide infant car seat will do.  I believe this is the only one that fits our need.Size	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Size	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our carsSize	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Size	 head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still smallSize	t is a big car seatSize	The size is pretty bigSize	The seat is giganticSize	The seat is gigantic.Size	Big enough for a toddlerSize	I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all carsSize	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out thereSize	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Size	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Size	ight fit but does the job its supposed to do.Size	The seat is giganticSize	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards.Size	bigger Size	Now for the cons.  The seat is gigantic. Size	it has fit really well in all cars.Size	fits just fine.Size	17in. wide infant car seatSize	giganticSize	It is as many have explained before a little small as I was used to the bigger and heavier 20D body but I guess is just a matter of getting used to it.Size	fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Size	Big enough for a toddlerSize	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Size	light weight and fits well in the middle seatSize	Fit my newborns head with the extra cushion that came with it.Size	 with the side impact shaping its a very tight space to use the light blue head restsSize	we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbsSize	Im sure this is safe enough but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenientSize	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much roomSize	Very bulky.Size	 with the side impact shaping its a very tight space to use the light blue head rests Size	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Size	Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do. Size	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards. Size	difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle beltSize	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Size	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out thereSize	The seat is gigantic.Size	Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortabilitySize	too inconvenient.Size	The seat is gigantic.Size	igure that a 17in. wide Size	Very bulkySize	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.Size	Very bulky.Size	it is a big car seatSize	it is a big car seatSize	Awesome but a little bigSize	The seat is giganticSize	 the biggest is this darn sun visorSize	The size is pretty bigSize	 size is pretty bigSize	Very bulkySize	The size is pretty bigSize	 it is a big car seatSize	Very bulky.Size	Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Tight fitSize	light weight Size	The seat is giganticSize	e seat is big whSize	The seat is gigantic.  Size	Now for the cons.  The seat is giganticSize	Very bulkySize	The seat is giganticSize	We are able to use our Britax Marathon a Graco booster and this infant car seat all in one row.Size	The size is pretty bigSize	It is a big seat especially rear facingSize	This seat would onlt fit in the 2nd row in the middle seating positionSize	While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh.Size	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Size	  The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.Size	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.Size	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.Size	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Size	Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra.Size	The seat is giganticSize	Big enough for a toddlerSize	The size is pretty bigSize	the seat is bigSize	Additionally with the side impact shaping its a very tight space to use the light blue head restsSize	#N/ASize	The seat is giganticSize	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. Size	Very bulky.Size	it is a big car seatSize	Although the seat is bigSize	The seat is giganticSize	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Size	Somewhat Compact sizeSize	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge carSize	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out thereSize	The size is pretty bigSize	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Size	Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do.Size	Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra.Size	The seat is gigantic.Size	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti.Size	Big enough for a toddlerSize	The size is pretty bigSize	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingSize	The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Size	so I dont mind the bulkSize	While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh.Size	Somewhat Compact sizeSize	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.Size	Very bulky.Size	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Size	.  The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.Size	  It is a big seat especially rear facingSize	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti.Size	 it is a big car seatSize	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfySize	Very bulky.Size	Big enough for a toddlerSize	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.Size	 a high rear facing weight and height limit.  It is so high in fact that my 3 1/2 year old would still be able to be rear facing in this seat.Size	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base.Size	it has fit really well in all cars.Size	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Size	 it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Size	but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient.Size	Now for the cons.  The seat is gigantic.Size	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well.Size	  The seat is gigantic.Size	It is as many have explained before a little smallSize	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Size	 it is a big car seat Size	  It is a big seat especially rear facing. Size	The seat is gigantic.Size	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.Size	Big enough for a toddlerSize	Very bulky.Size	a big car seatSize	Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do.Size	Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra.Size	he seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my carSize	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives.Size	  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.Size	  The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out thereSize	It is a big seat especially rear facing.Size	The seat is gigantic.Size	  The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.Size	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Size	Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra. As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once.Size	  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car. I currently live in Japan where my hubby is currently stationed with the USMCSize	r seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well.Size	  The size is pretty bigSize	  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.Size	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsSize	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Size	 Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Size	 Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do. Size	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra.Size	Now for the cons.  The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car.Size	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.Size	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well. Overall a very nice car seat for the price.Size	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti.Size	 But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing. My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Size	I have a 2003 Maxima which has a slight bump in the middleSize	I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars.  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.Size	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Size	We love these carseats.  It is a big seat especially rear facing.  We have a Sienna mini van and we had them both on the bench seat.  Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards.Size	Somewhat Compact sizeEase of useSize	Now for the cons.  The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my carSize	is gigantic.Size	I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars.Size	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out thereSize	  I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit.  It is so high in fact that my 3 1/2 year old would still be able to be rear facing in this seat.Size	I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Size	The size is pretty bigSize	Big enough for a toddlerSize	Very bulky.Size	Somewhat Compact sizeEase of useSize	Big enough for a toddlerEasy to installSize	Big enough for a toddlerSize	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerSize	The size is pretty bigSize	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Size	  The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge cSize	  The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car. I currently live in Japan where my hubby is currently stationed with the USMC. Speed	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Speed	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow.Speed	adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous modeSpeed	you can press the shutter and the camera will instantly take a pictureSpeed	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Speed	adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed	T2i is the one I will keep.  WhySpeed	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.Speed	Slower than T2i Speed	T2i is FASTSpeed	3.7 max burst rate not very fastSpeed	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhySpeed	Fast start up speed Speed	Slower than T2i Speed	Slower than T2i Speed	turns on in about 1 secondSpeed	It is GREAT for skate/surf video because of its 60fps mode.Speed	Fast start up speed Speed	Focus in live picture mode is slowSpeed	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed	FASTSpeed	The T2i is FASTSpeed	frequent and unpredictable delaysSpeed	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhySpeed	3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allSpeed	decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhySpeed	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed	Slower than T2iSpeed	  Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots. Speed	For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhySpeed	I used the same exact settings on both cameras large Jpeg P-mode Quick AF.  Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.Speed	T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iSpeed	I used the same exact settings on both cameras large Jpeg P-mode Quick AF.  Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.Speed	not very fast at allSpeed	Slower than T2iSpeed	The T2i is FASTSpeed	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed	Focus in live picture mode is slow Speed	Fast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondSpeed	3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allSpeed	The T2i is FASTSpeed	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slowSpeed	Very fast auto focus on shootingSpeed	not very fast at allSpeed	Slower than T2iSpeed	The T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to.  It makes a huge difference knowing you can press the shutter and the camera will instantly take a picture.  The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Speed	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed	  The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed	Fast start up speedSpeed	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhySpeed	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed	Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shotsSpeed	Very fast auto focus on shootingSpeed	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Speed	I used the same exact settings on both cameras large Jpeg P-mode Quick AF.  Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.Speed	Fast start up speedSpeed	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Speed	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed	#N/ASpeed	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous modeSpeed	Slower than T2i Speed	The T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to.  It makes a huge difference knowinSpeed	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses.Speed	adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous modeSpeed	#N/ASpeed	#N/ASpeed	#N/ASpeed	The T2i is FAST.Speed	Slower than T2iSpeed	Fast start up speedSpeed	The T2i is FASTSpeed	I used the same exact settings on both cameras large Jpeg P-mode Quick AF.  Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.Speed	Slower than T2iSpeed	this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shotsSpeed	The T2i is FASTSpeed	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Speed	 Very fast auto focus on shooting.Speed	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhySpeed	Slower than T2i Speed	The T2i is FASTSpeed	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhySpeed	ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Speed	3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shootingSpeed	Slower than T2i Speed	Slower than T2i Speed	The T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to.  It makes a huge difference knowing you can press the shutter and the camera will instantly take a picture.  The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhySpeed	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasSpeed	Slower than T2i Speed	Slower than T2iSpeed	I used the same exact settings on both cameras large Jpeg P-mode Quick AF.  Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.Battery Life	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.Battery Life	Battery life is not too greatBattery Life	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger wiBattery Life	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Battery Life	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expectedBattery Life	4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Battery Life	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger with a swing-out plug.  This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.Battery Life	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.Battery Life	Battery life Battery Life	Battery lifeBattery Life	. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Battery Life	Battery life is not too greatBattery Life	 Battery life is not too great. IBattery Life	 Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Battery Life	Battery lifeBattery Life	3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.OverBattery Life	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.Battery Life	#N/ABattery Life	 Battery life is not too greatBattery Life	Battery life is not too greatBattery Life	 Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everydayBattery Life	Battery life is not too great.Battery Life	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger with a swing-out plug.Battery Life	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expectedBattery Life	Battery life is not too great.Battery Life	 Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Battery Life	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger with a swing-out plug.Battery Life	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital CamerasBattery Life	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.Battery Life	Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital CamerasBattery Life	Battery life is not too greatBattery Life	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Battery Life	 Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to someBattery Life	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.Battery Life	4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Memory	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPMemory	Nikon suggests certain memory cards that they certified to use with this camera.  Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or more.  I purchased two Transcend 8GB Class 10 SDHC Card TS8GSDHC10 from Amazon and so far these have been amazing.  I have the camera saving in both RAW and JPEG until I can get familiar enough to switch completely to RAW.  Saving in this format is 20MB a picture and this card has no trouble keeping up.Memory	emory cardsMemory	Nikon suggests certain memory cards that they certified to use with this camera.  Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or more.  I purchased two Transcend 8GB Class 10 SDHC Card TS8GSDHC10 from Amazon and so far these have been amazing.  I have the camera saving in both RAW and JPEG until I can get familiar enough to switch completely to RAW.  Saving in this format is 20MB a picture and this card has no trouble keeping up.Memory	I would recommend to get a high speed memory card. Memory	 would recommend to get a high speed memory card. The pictures at full 18MP take a lot of memoryMemory	 I would recommend to get a high speed memory card. The pictures at full 18MP take a lot of memory. Better get some means of decent storage space 750-1TB hardrive will doMemory	 certain memory cards that they certified to use with this camera.  Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or more.  I purchased two Transcend 8GB Class 10 SDHC Card TS8GSDHC10 from Amazon and so far these have been amazing.  I have the camera saving in both RAW and JPEG until I can get familiar enough to switch completely to RAW.  Saving in this format is 20MB a picture and this card has no trouble keeping upMemory	 high speed memory card. The pictures at full 18MP take a lot of memory.Memory	I purchased two Transcend 8GB Class 10 SDHC Card TS8GSDHC10 from Amazon and so far these have been amazing.  I have the camera saving in both RAW and JPEG until I can get familiar enough to switch completely to RAW.  Saving in this format is 20MB a picture and this card has no trouble keeping up.Simplicity	Easy to operate.Simplicity	Ease of useSimplicity	 Easy to operate.Simplicity	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.Design	extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.  I love the no rethread harness and although it took me a bit to figure out how to work it it is still fairly simple and much preferrable over the rethread type.Design	when my daughter falls asleep they hold her head up so its not bobbing all over the place.Design	height is adjustableDesign	adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats.Design	big car seatDesign	but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Design	buckle system is heavy dutyDesign	really well constructed and pretty comfyDesign	cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. Design	head rest is removableDesign	No thread adjustable strapsDesign	Very bulky.Design	Big enough for a toddlerDesign	no rethread harness is awesomeDesign	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfyDesign	the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyDesign	head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still smallDesign	. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Design	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I takeDesign	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Design	extremely mobileDesign	ergonomic arrangement of controlsDesign	designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Design	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Design	Material is easy to cleanDesign	s a good choice.  Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto Design	Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.Design	mesh and into the babys eyesDesign	It is a well made and designed car seatDesign	It is a well made and designed car seatDesign	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.Design	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Design	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Design	Light weight great body designDesign	my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quicklyDesign	You do need a seat protector but youd need that with any car seatDesign	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issueDesign	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingDesign	I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Design	a more toddler friendly seatDesign	adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats.Design	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels.Design	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Design	higher weight limit as well.Design	buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as wellDesign	a very tight space to use the light blue head restsDesign	This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Design	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal.Design	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. Design	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Design	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.  light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.Durability	I have a baby on the way and know the seat will be durable enough to withstand constant use through 2 children Durability	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Durability	nice and heavy very durableDurability	he seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyDurability	durable enouDurability	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonableDurability	appears to be a very sturdy cameraDurability	I have a baby on the way and know the seat will be durable enough to withstand constant use through 2 children Durability	Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all dayDurability	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyDurability	 well constructedDurability	well made and designedDurability	very durableDurability	rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking itDurability	The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm gripDurability	#N/ADurability	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durableDurability	 Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day. Durability	is nice and heavy very durableDurability	Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day.Durability	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well. Durability	 very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durableDurability	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well.Construction	serious lack of adequate paddingConstruction	Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day.Construction	form factor it wont weigh me downConstruction	 Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.Construction	Also my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly.Construction	We are able to use our Britax Marathon a Graco booster and this infant car seat all in one row.Construction	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durableConstruction	I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.Construction	the biggest is this darn sun visorConstruction	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Construction	where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingConstruction	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Construction	I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfyConstruction	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. Resolution	the 18.1MP sensor.....WOW  The image sizes of the CMOS sensor allow me great latitude in adjusting and tweaking my RAW images anytime I wish to be creative.Resolution	 Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.Resolution	Low resolution of LCD screenResolution	 It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixelsResolution	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPResolution	I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer.Resolution	The best part was the 1080P video.Resolution	ow resolution of LCD screeStyle	This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or styleStyle	we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Style	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.Style	but this seat is also stylishStyle	seat is also stylishFlash	Built-in flash is not so greatFlash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Flash	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shadeFlash	 Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle settingFlash	Built-in flash is not so greatFlash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Flash	Built-in flashFlash	Built-in flash is not so greatFlash	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Flash	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFlash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Flash	The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.Flash	Built-in flash is not so greatFlash	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Flash	frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashesFlash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Flash	Built-in flash is not so greatFlash	#N/AFlash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shadeFlash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Flash	Built-in flash is not so great.Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Flash	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocusFlash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasPicture Quality	he pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Picture Quality	pictures are much much betterPicture Quality	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for. Picture Quality	 Picture quality on this t2i is stunning so many features that it will take me months to figure out how to really get the most out of this camera.Picture Quality	I asked a good 10 friends of mine which camera out there was my best bang for my buck They all said the t2i or t3i its a great starter camera and will profuce amazing pictures as well. Picture Quality	Ive taken some stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens comboPicture Quality	 took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality. I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer. Picture Quality	Camera is just amazing. For a begginer in the professional photography area I definetly see an ocean of difference between the t2i and point and shoot cameras. Picture quality on this t2i is stunning so many features that it will take me months to figure out how to really get the most out of this cameraPicture Quality	Since I have switched from Nikon to Canon a lot of my review is based on comparison to Nikon.ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Picture Quality	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for. Picture Quality	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focusPicture Quality	The grain was drowning out the detailsPicture Quality	 point and shoot the pictures are great.Picture Quality	Picture qualityPicture Quality	pictures looked dull Picture Quality	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.Picture Quality	Compared to my Kodak point and shoot the pictures are great.Picture Quality	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.Picture Quality	I sent that camera back and purchased a new one from Amazon.  Same problem.  Well I have since done some research and participated in forums and found out there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photos.Picture Quality	Picture quality on this t2i is stunning so many features that it will take me months to figure out how to really get the most out of this camera. I have done months of research before buying this T2i 18-135mm model and according to the experts there is really not much difference betrween t2i and the t3i. for 150 bucks less I do not need a rotating screen and other minute extended features.Picture Quality	I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazingPicture Quality	I took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality.Picture Quality	I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Picture Quality	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for. Picture Quality	You would expect Auto Modes to take easy great pictures in an entry level camera most people coming from point and shoot cameras.  If you want sharp pictures you have to use P S A or M modes with the D3100.  There you can control the ISO manually or use Auto ISO and choose a lower maximum ISO setting.Picture Quality	some great shots for him to send to recruiters and collegesPicture Quality	ok some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very goodPicture Quality	I researched several SLRs before deciding on the Canon T3i.  Im happy with my choice so far having purchased the camera first of all to take high quality photos of fairly small works of sculpture art using the Canon 60mm macro lens.  For that use the camera and lens seem to work very well.  I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip. Picture Quality	They love their camera so I figured this was a good choice.  Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode so it acts like a point and shoot.  Compared to my Kodak point and shoot the pictures are great.Picture Quality	I took some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very good. Also i loved the guide mode when in doubt use guide. The best part was the 1080P video. I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good and my wife who is very difficult to please liked it so much that she said that next time we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100  I guess now i can finally retire my mini DV video camera.Picture Quality	t teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.  I have learned more using that mode in one week than from the weeks Ive spent reading books and websites.  For the money I saved on the camera I was able to purchase a telephoto lens to go with it.  Worth every penny.  I look forward to many years of great photos.Picture Quality	pictures they are professional lookingPicture Quality	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forPicture Quality	amazingPicture Quality	18MP StillsPicture Quality	my pictures they are professional looking my family and friends say and these are just on the automatic settingPicture Quality	nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazingPicture Quality	 Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flashPicture Quality	Compared to my Kodak point and shoot the pictures are great.Picture Quality	You would expect Auto Modes to take easy great pictures in an entry level camera most people coming from point and shoot cameras.Picture Quality	I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing.Picture Quality	I took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i qualityPicture Quality	#N/APicture Quality	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture. Picture Quality	Compared to my Kodak point and shoot the pictures are great.Picture Quality	#N/APicture Quality	The pictures looked dullPicture Quality	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flashPicture Quality	 there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the settingPicture Quality	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Picture Quality	Well I have since done some research and participated in forums and found out there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photos.  You would expect Auto Modes to take easy great pictures in an entry level camera most people coming from point and shoot cameras.  If you want sharp pictures you have to use P S A or M modes with the D3100.  There you can control the ISO manually or use Auto ISO and choose a lower maximum ISO setting.  Apparently this is a discussed firmware issue but Nikon claimed they hadnt heard about it when I messaged themPicture Quality	For a begginer in the professional photography area I definetly see an ocean of difference between the t2i and point and shoot cameras. Picture quality on this t2i is stunningPicture Quality	amazed by the Canon T3i quality.Picture Quality	  I changed the camera to P S A Picture Quality	In addition if youd love to take beautiful portraits for your beloved ones Id highly recommend you to also get a Nikon 35mm f/1.8G AF-S DX Lens for Nikon Digital SLR Cameras. Picture Quality	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shadePicture Quality	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPPicture Quality	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixelsPicture Quality	the 18.1MP sensorPicture Quality	went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screenPicture Quality	Compared to my Kodak point and shoot the pictures are greatPicture Quality	Very fast auto focus on shootingPicture Quality	right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forPicture Quality	very high ISO levels in Auto ModePicture Quality	Picture quality on this t2i is stunning so many features that it will take me months to figure out how to really get the most out of this camera. I have done months ofPicture Quality	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changPrice	great option for those of us who cant afford a BritaxPrice	the price is very reasonablePrice	isnt the cheapest seatPrice	Overall a very nice car seat for the price.Price	 price is very reasonablePrice	the price in amazon is very cheapPrice	price is very reasonable.Price	For the money the D3100 cant be beatPrice	its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price	great deal for the pricePrice	reasonable pricePrice	 I could not see myself spending that much .Price	priceyPrice	  the price in amazon is very cheap.Price	I chose the t2i over t3i because I didnt feel I would need to use the movable lcd screen and couldnt justify spending that much money on it.Price	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the moneyPrice	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100. Price	PricePrice	PricePrice	Great Quality for PricePrice	A few things I dont like but not many.  The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.  Also my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly.  It isnt hard to get back on and it is nice that it pops off so it can go on either side but it is annoying when he gets it off and starts throwing it around.  Of course it would be that or his toys or whatever else he could find if he couldnt get it off.  You do need a seat protector but youd need that with any car seat.  I also dont like some of the colors but that is personal preference.Overall were really happy with this car seat.  It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.Price	wallet friendlyPrice	looking seriously at the Canon T2i and the Nikon D3100.  For the money the D3100 cant be beat.  What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.  I have learned more using that mode in one week than from the weeks Ive spent reading books and websites.  For the money I saved on the camera I was able to purchase a telephoto lens to go with it.Price	We got this car seat after being very happy with my sons First Years Via car seat.  He was too big already for the extra padding but we had him back facing in this seat for about six months and now have him forward facing.  Hes liked both ways.  I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars.  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.  Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.  I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.  Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.  Ive felt a lot of other car seats out there that feel like theyd be pretty hard to sit on and uncomfortable.A few things I dont like but not many.  The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.  Also my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly.  It isnt hard to get back on and it is nice that it pops off so it can go on either side but it is annoying when he gets it off and starts throwing it around.  Of course it would be that or his toys or whatever else he could find if he couldnt get it off.  You do need a seat protector but youd need that with any car seat.  I also dont like some of the colors but that is personal preference.Overall were really happy with this car seat.  It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.Price	very nice car seat for the pricePrice	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.Price	price is very reasonable.Price	price is very reasonablePrice	great deal for the pricePrice	wallet friendly and in this economyPrice	wallet friendlyPrice	friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much .Price	  It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.Price	PRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iPrice	Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup.Price	 not much difference betrween t2i and the t3i. for 150 bucks less I do not need a rotating screen and other minute extended features.Price	Cons- PricePrice	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100. Price	Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.Price	Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses.Price	a bit expensivePrice	  Bonus- its wallet friendlyPrice	I found this to be a great deal for the pricePrice	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.Price	its wallet friendlyPrice	 have probably saved  200-300  i would recommend this to anybody i know who is into DPrice	No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available.Price	I got it for 699  including the VR 55-200mm + camera bag with DVDPrice	PricePrice	money I saved on the camera I was able to purchase a telephoto lens to go with it. Price	 great deal for the price.Price	its wallet friendlyPrice	great deal for the price.Price	Excellent camera though a bit expensive - worth every penny.Price	 best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.Price	reasonable price Price	I got it for 699  including the VR 55-200mm + camera bag with DVD .Price	 Price	its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price	price is very reasonable.Price	veryPrice	price is very reasonablePrice	priceyPrice	reasonable pricePrice	PricePrice	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the moneyPrice	PRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in pricePrice	a great deal for the pricPrice	I found this to be a great deal for the pricePrice	its wallet friendlyPrice	I found this to be a great deal for the price.Price	is is a great car seat. I did a lot of research on safety price etc. before buying this one.  I actually bought two one for my car and one for my husbands car.  We were very pleased with itPrice	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonablePrice	price is very reasonable.Price	wallet friendlyPrice	isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.Price	price is very reasonablePrice	a bit expensive Price	you dont want to spend more money on lensesPrice	reasonable price Price	a great deal for the pricePrice	I feel like you get what you pay forPrice	Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price	It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.Price	I found this to be a great deal for the pricePrice	Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price	It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.Price	  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price	Overall a very nice car seat for the price.Price	priceyPrice	Nikon suggests certain memory cards that they certified to use with this camera.  Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or morePrice	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much . But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing.Price	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much Price	 If you see the video when shopping for a car seat I found this to be a great deal for the pricePrice	its wallet friendlyPrice	  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price	Overall a very nice car seat for the price. This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.Price	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usuallPrice	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100Price	For the money the D3100 cant be beat.  What sold me was the guide mode.Price	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraPrice	PricePrice	For the money the D3100 cant be beatPrice	 PricePrice	Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.Price	Save yourself the headache of working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body.Price	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 10Price	usually Price	situation where you dont want to change lensesPrice	Since initially postingPrice	hough a bit expensivePrice	worthy of purchase Price	199.99Price	169.9Price	24119.9Price	I could not see myself spending that much .Price	24799Price	If your looking for a great Camera look no further you have found it  If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100Price	24749Price	This is my first DSLR and couldnt be more happier with this Purchase. Its been two weeks since i brought this camera from Bestbuy since it was out of stock at Amazon and also with 10Price	24549Price	#N/APrice	I upgraded from a Canon 20D to this specific model after several hours of navigating product reviews and I dont regret it the other contenders were the T3i and T3 close  range and after careful though on ISO performance MPs price and features I decided that this model offered me the best balance. Price	199.99Price	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price	Ive purchased SnugRides in the past but this is the first one to have a serious lack of adequate padding.  Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEATPrice	169.9Price	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.Price	PricePrice	a bit expensivePrice	its wallet friendlyPrice	price is very reasonablePrice	Great Quality for PricePrice	24799Price	24749Price	24549Price	24199.99Price	Bonus- its wallet friendlyPrice	 I could not see myself spending that much Price	s- its wallet friendly Price	24169.9Price	the price is very reasonable.Price	24119.9Price	y nice car seat for the pricePrice	PricePrice	PricePrice	24749Price	24549Price	24799Price	24199.99Price	For the money the D3100 cant be beat.Price	24169.9Price	24119.9Price	great deal for the price. Price	spending that much Price	price is very reasonable.Price	reasonable.Price	its wallet friendlyPrice	 price is very reasonable.Price	This is a great option for thosePrice	Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEATPrice	 PricePrice	PricePrice	Although priceyPrice	PRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iPrice	digital photography at a reasonable pricePrice	I could not see myself spending that much Price	Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price	 its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price	the price is very reasonable.Price	eat I found this to be a great deal for the price. Price	Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEATPrice	t is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price	Overall a very nice car seat for the pricePrice	  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Price	price is very reasonable.Price	Canon EOS Rebel T2i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-inch LCD and and EF-S ... by CanonPrice	I have done months of research before buying this T2i 18-135mm model and according to the experts there is really not much difference betrween t2i and the t3i. for 150 bucks less I do not need a rotating screen and other minute extended features.Price	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraPrice	If your looking for a great Camera look no further you have found it  If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.Price	Canon EOS Rebel T3i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-Inch Clear View Vari-A... by CanonPrice	#N/APrice	#N/APrice	This productPrice	The First Years True Fit Recline Convertible Car Seat City Chic by The First YearsPrice	Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price	Safety 1st Complete Air 65 Protect Convertible Car Seat Silver Leaf by DorelPrice	Graco SnugRide 30 Infant Car Seat Metropolis by GracoPrice	Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price	price is very reasonable.Price	the price is very reasonable.Price	189.99 169.9Price	24199.99Price	139.99 119.9Price	  the price in amazon is very cheap. I got it for 699  including the VR 55-200mm + camera bag with DVD .  i also used the transcend 32 gb class 10 from amazon for 50 work without any problems . also bought battery at amazon for 27  EN EL 14   way way  amazing purchase. i have probably saved  200-300  i would recommend this to anybody i know who is into DSLR.Price	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much .Price	I found this to be a great deal for the price.Price	 Overall a very nice car seat for the price. Price	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much .Price	#NAME?Price	ts wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price	#N/APrice	#N/APrice	PricePrice	 PricePrice	Great value for the pricePrice	#N/APrice	  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price	24799Price	24749Price	24549Price	the price is very reasonable.Price	24199.99Price	24169.9Price	24119.9Price	  I researched for several weeks looking seriously at the Canon T2i and the Nikon D3100.  Price	Bonus- its wallet friendlyPrice	price is very reasonable.Price	#N/APrice	#N/APrice	#N/APrice	For ease of use IQ form factor it wont weigh me down etc. I feel as if the D3100 was a great purchase. Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup.Price	And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lensPrice	Cons- PricePrice	  Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price	799.99 749.0Price	 the price is very reasonable.Price	its wallet friendlyPrice	t is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price	 its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price	wallet friendlyPrice	199.99Price	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.Price	24799Price	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraPrice	though a bit expensivePrice	24549Price	Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable pricePrice	I could not see myself spending that much Price	wallet friendlyPrice	price is very reasonable.Price	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.Price	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensPrice	Decided to get t2i over t3i. . .and happy I did January 15 2012Price	Canon EOS Rebel T3i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-Inch Clear View Vari-Angle LCD and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS LensPrice	PricePrice	f you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.Price	PRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iPrice	Cons- PricePrice	Im glad to have this camera it has everything comparable to canon t2  1080p movie 14.2 mp 502g light weight. 3 inch screen . i dont really mind the 230k dots screen its very bright and clear anyways compare to 900+ dots  .  the price in amazon is very cheap. I got it for 699  including the VR 55-200mm + camera bag with DVD .Price	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price	 Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price Price	its wallet friendlyPrice	24199.99Price	24169.9Price	24119.9Price	 If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.Price	  It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price	  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.Price	 well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much .Price	Bonus- its wallet friendlyPrice	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much . But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing. My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Price	Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.Price	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iPrice	 Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup.Price	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.Price	PRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iPrice	 its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price	Bonus- its wallet friendlyPrice	It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.Price	  Bonus- its wallet friendlyPrice	price is very reasonable.Price	PricePrice	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.Price	the price in amazon is very cheapPrice	  For the money the D3100 cant be beat.Price	its wallet friendly aPrice	I found this to be a great deal for the price.Price	Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well. Overall a very nice car seat for the price.Price	No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.  I am going to order another one of these for my husbands car.  It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price	I could not see myself spending that much Price	Nikon D3100 16.2MP CMOS Digital SLR Camera with 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 AF-S DX VR Nikkor Zoom LensPrice	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasPrice	24799Price	24549Price	the price in amazon is very cheapPrice	24749Price	The First Years True Fit Recline Convertible Car Seat City Chic by The First YearsPrice	24119.9Price	very nice car seat for the pricePrice	Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasPrice	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.Price	Cons- PricePrice	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keepPrice	24549Price	24749Price	24799Price	 Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much .Price	.  This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price	24199.99Price	  Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price	24169.9Price	24119.9Price	This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price	great deal for the pricePrice	wallet friendlyPrice	price is very reasonable.Price	24169.9Price	wallet friendlyPrice	199.99Price	price is very reasonable.Price	price is very reasonable.Price	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price	we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price	Im glad to have this camera it has everything comparable to canon t2  1080p movie 14.2 mp 502g light weight. 3 inch screen . i dont really mind the 230k dots screen its very bright and clear anyways compare to 900+ dots  .  the price in amazon is very cheap.Durable	heavy very durableDurable	f is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well.Durable	 is nice and heavy very durableDurable	well constructed and pretty comfyDurable	nice and heavy very durableDurable	ice and heavy very durableDurable	 holds a child up to 65lbsDurable	seat will be durable enough to withstand constant use through 2 childrenQuality	very nice fabric thats soft to the touchQuality	excellent padding and very nice soft fabricQuality	material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyQuality	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingQuality	The chair is excellent qualityQuality	really well constructed and pretty comfyQuality	seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed itQuality	it does a good job of taking picturesQuality	3.7 fpsQuality	Takes good quality of videos.Quality	I took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality. Quality	The quality is amazingQuality	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Quality	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Additionally with the side impact shaping its a very tight space to use the light blue head rests shown in the listing picture.  I havent tested it out yet but just from the appearance I can tell its not going to work.Ive purchased SnugRides in the past but this is the first one to have a serious lack of adequate padding.  Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEATQuality	Excellent Product came within 2 business days even though I did standard shipping. Fit my newborns head with the extra cushion that came with it.  Loved the colors as well. Works perfectly with the Snap N Go stroller piece.Quality	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. I highly recommend this it item.Quality	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Overall we feel both our children are safe and would recommend this for long term use to friends and family members. We are contemplating buying two more so we have matching seats in both vehicles. They are worth every penny.Quality	the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forQuality	Excellent camera though a bit expensive - worth every penny.Quality	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPQuality	Excellent Beginners DSLRQuality	Excellent Beginners DSLRQuality	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Quality	we dont need to compromise on quality or styleQuality	not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull Quality	 Low resolution of LCD screenQuality	great in low lighting settings.Quality	high quality photos of fairly small works of sculpture artQuality	Some pictures came out blue-ish.Quality	I changed the camera to P S A Quality	he bottom line is that images from the D3100 are indistinguishable from the more expensive models. Quality	snap off the cup holder pretty quickly.  It isnt hard to get back on and it is nice that it pops off so it can go on either side but it is annoying when he gets it off and starts throwing it around. Quality	 chair is excellent qualityQuality	17in. wide infant car seat will do.Quality	we dont need to compromise on quality or style.Quality	well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Quality	the biggest is this darn sun visorQuality	 When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyesQuality	very durableQuality	product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seatQuality	 material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Quality	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come offQuality	T3i greater then nikon 5100Quality	large Jpeg P-mode Quick AFQuality	akes good quality of videosQuality	e chair is excellent quality.Quality	we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Quality	 took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality. I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer. The quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it. I also took a picture of a cherry tree that was about 30 yards away and then opened it up in Photoshop zoomed in and could see cherries that I could not even see with my eyes from the spot where I took the picture. I can not wait to get Canon 15-85mm f/3.5-5.6 EF-S Zoom Lens and than I will be in some serious business.Quality	  Im happy with my choice so far having purchased the camera first of all to take high quality photos of fairly small works of sculpture art using the Canon 60mm macro lens.  For that use the camera and lens seem to work very well.Quality	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Quality	 Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.Quality	. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. Quality	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Quality	I took some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very good. Also i loved the guide mode when in doubt use guide. The best part was the 1080P video. I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good and my wife who is very difficult to please liked it so much that she said that next time we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100  I guess now i can finally retire my mini DV video camera.Quality	The chair is excellent quality.Quality	It is a well made and designed car seatQuality	 is nice and heavy very durableQuality	works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or styleQuality	#N/AQuality	#N/AQuality	#N/AQuality	 noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping foQuality	 This body is rock solid and worthy of purchase for ANY and ALL people entering or needing an advanced DSLR camera. Quality	ne disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy. Quality	while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.Quality	While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Quality	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingQuality	60fpsQuality	I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surferQuality	I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing.Quality	It is a well made and designed car seatQuality	 Picture quality on this t2i is stunning so many features that it will take me months to figure out how to really get the most out of this camera.Quality	I upgraded from nikon D50 to this. So of course the pictures are much much betterQuality	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Quality	 grain/dull/no detailed photos.Quality	If you want sharp pictures you have to use P S A or M modes with the D3100.  There you can control the ISO manually or use Auto ISO and choose a lower maximum ISO setting.Quality	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iCons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingQuality	It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.Quality	 Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all dayQuality	 I also took a picture of a cherry tree that was about 30 yards away and then opened it up in Photoshop zoomed in and could see cherries that I could not even see with my eyes from the spot where I took the pictureQuality	The image sizes of the CMOS sensor allow me great latitude in adjusting and tweaking my RAW images anytime I wish to be creative.Quality	  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.Quality	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. Quality	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Quality	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much . But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing. My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Quality	Air 65 car seat that we have purchased so we could have one in each car.  I have a baby on the way and know the seat will be durable enough to withstand constant use through 2 children   Of course safety is our main concern but this seat is also stylish Quality	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Quality	. It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels.Quality	- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Quality	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keepQuality	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iQuality	I had been taking pictures with my roommates Canon EOS t2i for months and then I decided to get my own entry-level DSLR. Ive compared Canon EOS t2i with Nikon D3100 and finally I picked D3100. I am very happy about the decision.Quality	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyQuality	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Quality	 the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.Quality	  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Quality	rated Quality	nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazingQuality	Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day.Quality	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.Quality	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Quality	3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shootingQuality	3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extraQuality	  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.Quality	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Quality	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Quality	The quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it.Quality	The chair is excellent quality.Quality	#N/AQuality	T2i is the Best Entry Level DSLRQuality	enter. It fit fine and snug as can be. What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not blQuality	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick. One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Quality	The quality is amazingSturdiness	This body is rock solid Ease Of Use	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Ease Of Use	all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels naturalEase Of Use	simple menu. The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not.Ease Of Use	he camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.  The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode. I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.  The view finder is very clear and has all basic settings info on the bottom border.Ease Of Use	solid and is easy to holdEase Of Use	best balanceEase Of Use	easy to understandEase Of Use	Its extremely mobileEase Of Use	The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.Ease Of Use	 LOVE this camera. Its extremely mobile. I can just flip open my tripod lock and GO Ease Of Use	simple menuEase Of Use	easly instaled it in the carEase Of Use	VERY easy to install base in car. Ease Of Use	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bitEase Of Use	For ease of use IQ form factor it wont weigh me down etc. I feel as if the D3100 was a great purchase.Ease Of Use	the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menuEase Of Use	What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shotsEase Of Use	YOU CANT GO WRONG WITH THIS CAMERA   It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.  It is very user Friendly and Fun to use.Ease Of Use	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.Ease Of Use	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Ease Of Use	Easy to operateEase Of Use	user-friendly controlsEase Of Use	Starting off on full auto moving through the different pre-determined settings sports portrait landscape etc and the into the manual modesEase Of Use	  I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.  The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual modeEase Of Use	Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode so it acts like a point and shootEase Of Use	i loved the guide mode when in doubt use guideEase Of Use	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.  The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode. I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.  The view finder is very clear and has all basic settings info on the bottom border.  The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRs.Ease Of Use	I looked at many items before pulling the trigger on the Canon T3i. I went to Best buy and tested out the Canon T2i the Nikon D5100 the Canon 60D and the Nikon D7000. After testing out all the products I came to the decision that the only cameras I liked that felt good in my hand were the Canon T2i Nikon D5100 and the Can T3i. I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal.Ease Of Use	Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup.Ease Of Use	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Ease Of Use	Ease of useEase Of Use	#N/AEase Of Use	#N/AEase Of Use	the D3100 is the easier to use compared to the D5100 that had to relinquish four buttons to make room for the swivel screen of the D5100Ease Of Use	Well I have since done some research and participated in forums and found out there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photos.  You would expect Auto Modes to take easy great pictures in an entry level camera most people coming from point and shoot cameras.  If you want sharp pictures you have to use P S A or M modes with the D3100.  There you can control the ISO manually or use Auto ISO and choose a lower maximum ISO setting.  Apparently this is a discussed firmware issue but Nikon claimed they hadnt heard about it when I messaged themEase Of Use	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficultEase Of Use	It is so easy to use and install Ease Of Use	easy to get baby in and out ofEase Of Use	buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as wellEase Of Use	Ease of useEase Of Use	  The view finder is very clear and has all basic settings info on the bottom border.  The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRs. Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger with a swing-out plug.  This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.Ease Of Use	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menu. The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not. I am a person to read through and learn the various features the camera has to offer. I am impressed with the lens that comes with the camera for the wide angle aspect of it due to a lot of places I shoot pictures there are a lot of people and requires me to get close to get the shot I wantEase Of Use	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.Ease Of Use	trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lensesEase Of Use	  Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode so it acts like a point and shootEase Of Use	This is my first DSLR Ease Of Use	ighly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at aEase Of Use	about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lensEase Of Use	 Best Entry Level DSLREase Of Use	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the pictureEase Of Use	T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous modeEase Of Use	right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forEase Of Use	flip out LCD screenEase Of Use	recommend this for long term useEase Of Use	car seat is very easy to get baby in and out ofEase Of Use	the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyEase Of Use	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing positionEase Of Use	 It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.Ease Of Use	It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.Ease Of Use	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Ease Of Use	As a first time Digital SLR buyer and user I love this camera and would highly recommend it to others.  We took about 300 pictures at a Thanksgiving get together and a few other people tried the camera out and were impressed as well.I am not a professional so please dont take my opinion as someone acting as an authority on this subject but as a first time user I am happy and hope my review will help any other first time digital camera fans out there.  Thanks.Ease Of Use	  It is so easy to use and install Safety	 very comfortable and appears to be very safeSafety	The seat is giganticSafety	It holds the girls very secureSafety	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secureSafety	protects my little girl and it provides comfert for herSafety	it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulkSafety	buckle system is heavy duty and easy to useSafety	side crash testedSafety	it has the highest safety ratingSafety	car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety	but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulkSafety	It is side crash tested Safety	I chose it because it has the highest safety ratingSafety	but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Safety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety	 safety wSafety	highest safety ratingSafety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety	I did a lot of research on safety price etc. before buying this onSafety	I chose it because it has the highest safety rating.Safety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.  Some seats seemed too bulky and I know my daughter would be a sweaty mess in those styles.  This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped in.  The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well.  This is the second Safety 1st complete Air 65 car seat that we have purchased so we could have one in each car.  I have a baby on the way and know the seat will be durable enough to withstand constant use through 2 children   Of course safety is our main concern but this seat is also stylish Safety	The car seat was delivered one day after I ordered it online. Which was outstanding. I took it out of the box and my 2 year old became giddy with excitement. Normally he literally fights and struggles when it is time to get into the the car but not this time. I love this chair  My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure. I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra. As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once.Safety	appears to be very safeSafety	Im sure this is safe enoughSafety	it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Safety	Im confident that he is safe and secureSafety	the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well.Safety	side crash tested and the base is adjustableSafety	as the highest safety ratingSafety	side crash testedSafety	we feel both our children are safeSafety	highest safety ratingSafety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety	the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small. Safety	it protects my little girl Safety	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Safety	when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level.Safety	  I chose it because it has the highest safety ratingSafety	Overall we feel both our children are safe and would recommend this for long term use to friends and family membersSafety	I chose it because it has the highest safety rating.Safety	highest safety ratingSafety	 chose it because it has the highest safety ratingSafety	Overall we feel both our children are safe and would recommend this for long term use to friends and family members. We are contemplating buying two more so we have matching seats in both vehicles. They are worth every pennySafety	Also my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quicklySafety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move aroundSafety	highest safety rating.Safety	highest safety rating.Safety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety	 chose it because it has the highest safety rating.Safety	t is side crash tested Safety	Rear facing is the safest way for small children to travel when in a carSafety	 highest safety rating. Safety	safety Safety	  Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around. Safety	It is side crash tested Safety	side crash testedSafety	our snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is levelSafety	absolutely NO padding.Safety	easly instaled it in the car.Safety	highest safety rating.Safety	It is side crash tested and the base is adjustableSafety	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulkSafety	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves itSafety	safety Safety	side crash tested Safety	product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat.Safety	it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulkSafety	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her.Safety	Im confident that he is safe and secure. Safety	appears to be very safeSafety	I chose it because it has the highest safety ratingSafety	Overall we feel both our children are safeSafety	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her.Safety	appears to be very safeSafety	Im confident that he is safe and secure.Safety	 highest safety rating.Safety	side crash tested Safety	 because they did not fit backwardSafety	Other than the issues in rear facing position this is a terrific seat.Safety	 other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facingSafety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as wellSafety	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Safety	 Safety	he biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh.Safety	We are using this as a rear facing seat in our Chevy Malibu and it fits just fine. Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Safety	This is the second Safety 1st complete Air 65 car seat that we have purchased so we could have one in each car.Safety	doesnt move around.Safety	safety was my number one prioritySafety	highest safety ratingSafety	This is the second Safety 1st complete Air 65 car seat that we have purchased so we could have one in each car. Safety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move aroundSafety	20Safety	 It is side crash tested and the base is adjustableSafety	holds the girls very secureSafety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety	 Im confident that he is safe Safety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move aroundSafety	safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Safety	highest safety ratingSafety	highest safety ratingSafety	he is safe and secureSafety	 It is side crash testedSafety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety	I chose it because it has the highest safety ratingSafety	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Safety	.  I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars.  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.  Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety	  I chose it because it has the highest safety rating.Safety	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Safety	 One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Safety	Im sure this is safe enoughSafety	I chose it because it has the highest safety ratingSafety	it protects my little girlSafety	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secureSafety	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Safety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety	Currently the product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat.  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Safety	 it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it. Safety	However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.Safety	it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Safety	It is side crash tested Safety	it has the highest safety rating.Safety	 we feel both our children are safeSafety	appears to be very safeSafety	safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seatSafety	It holds the girls very secure and they love them.Safety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety	Im confident that he is safe and secure.Safety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move aroundSafety	but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulkSafety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move aroundSafety	highest safety ratingSafety	Im sure this is safeSafety	appears to be very safeSafety	the highest safety ratingSafety	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Safety	I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenientSafety	I purchased this seat because it was rated Safety	it has the highest safety ratingSafety	 My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Safety	It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels.Safety	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Safety	It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels.Safety	I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Safety	  Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety	  Also my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quicklSafety	We are using this as a rear facing seat in our Chevy Malibu and it fits just fine. Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Safety	It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. I highly recommend this it item.Safety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety	 Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Safety	 Im sure this is safe enough but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient.Safety	Normally he literally fights and struggles when it is time to get into the the car but not this time. I love this chair  My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Safety	I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit.  It is so high in fact that my 3 1/2 year old would still be able to be rear facing in this seatSafety	I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit.  It is so high in fact that my 3 1/2 year old would still be able to be rear facing in this seatSafety	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.Safety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.  I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.  Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.Safety	 I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Safety	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it. Im just thinking how happy she will be when she gets turned around in a few months. This will even work for newborns. if I had known that I would have gotten this a long time ago.Safety	 Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. Safety	 but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient.Safety	 rated Safety	 its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.Safety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.  I also find it really easy to installSafety	highest safety ratingSafety	confident that he is safeSafety	ice and heavy very durableSafety	 this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyesSafety	 NO padding. Safety	  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.Safety	comfortable and Im confident that he is safeSafety	it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Ease To Use	 For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Ease To Use	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to useMobility	Its extremely mobileMobility	 Its extremely mobile.Ram	Ships fromRam	Ships fromRam	Ships fromRam	Ships fromWeight	Light weightWeight	not very heavy.Weight	 Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Weight	Relatively lightWeight	d is not very heavyWeight	heavy enoughWeight	The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRWeight	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lensWeight	Relatively lightWeight	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Weight	I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit.Weight	ight weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. Weight	  I love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy.  It looks like it should beWeight	this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera.Weight	Relatively lightWeight	mparisons I decided on this camWeight	D3100 14.2MP Digital SLR Camera with 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 AF-S DX VR Nikkor Zoom Lens CameraWeight	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Weight	Relatively lightWeight	light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all dayWeight	Light weightWeight	Relatively lightWeight	Relatively lightWeight	Light weight great body designWeight	quite light Weight	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infinitiWeight	Currently the product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat.  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbsWeight	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lensWeight	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Weight	and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well.Weight	 Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Weight	but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day. Weight	howeverWeight	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for tripsWeight	 love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy.  It looks like it should be but does not feel like it is.  It appears to be a very sturdy camera.Weight	- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Weight	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Weight	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwardsWeight	The seat is gigantic.Weight	heavy Weight	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Weight	Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.Weight	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Weight	. Light weight great body designWeight	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for tripsWeight	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for tripsWeight	Light weight great body designWeight	 Light weight great body designWeight	light weightWeight	Relatively lightWeight	Light weight great body design.Weight	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lensWeight	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for tripsWeight	Light weight great body design.Weight	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Weight	elatively light Weight	 Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.Weight	 Light weight great body design. Weight	 Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lensWeight	form factor it wont weigh me downWeight	I love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy.  It looks like it should be but does not feel like it is.  It appears to be a very sturdy camera.Weight	Relatively lightWeight	 Light weight great body designWeight	#N/AWeight	#N/AWeight	#N/AWeight	It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Weight	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Weight	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti.Weight	 I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. Weight	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for tripsWeight	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Weight	heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all dayWeight	Light weight great body designWeight	#N/AWeight	elatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Weight	Light weight great body designWeight	 Relatively lightWeight	Relatively light Weight	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lensWeight	 Light weight great body design. Weight	Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day.Weight	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Weight	Nikon D3100 16.2MP CMOS Digital SLR Camera with 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 AF-S DX VR Nikkor Zoom LensWeight	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Weight	about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lensWeight	Very bulky.Weight	light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lensWeight	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Weight	2 pounds with lensStorage	I would recommend to get a high speed memory card. The pictures at full 18MP take a lot of memory. Better get some means of decent storage space 750-1TB hardrive will doStorage	750-1TB hardrive will doComfortable	 My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfortable	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Comfortable	This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him. I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.Comfortable	 it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it. Im just thinking how happy she will be when she gets turned around in a few months. This will even work for newborns. if I had known that I would have gotten this a long time ago.Comfortable	Normally he literally fights and struggles when it is time to get into the the car but not this time. I love this chair  My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Comfortable	5.0 out of 5 stars Comfortable	fits comfortablyComfortable	comfortable Comfortable	 comfortableComfortable	ComfortableComfortable	comfertComfortable	very comfortable for a little babyComfortable	  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy. Comfortable	its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.Comfortable	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Comfortable	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerComfortable	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfortable	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin.Comfortable	so much roomComfortable	  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfyComfortable	 roomierComfortable	 so comfortableComfortable	 it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Comfortable	 it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Comfortable	 trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base.Comfortable	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Comfortable	son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. Comfortable	Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my sonComfortable	 Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin.Comfortable	 its very comfortable and appears to be very safeComfortable	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Comfortable	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Comfortable	For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Comfortable	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.  Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.  I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.  Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my sonComfortable	 soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyComfortable	 True Fit convertable car seat is amazingComfortable	well constructed and pretty comfyReviews	rated Reviews	0Reviews	highest safety ratingReviews	rated Battery	This is my first time buying a Digital SLR.  I have mainly used point and shoot cameras in the past and have always had fun taking pictures.  I wanted to start digital photography as a hobby so I decided to buy a nicer camera.  After reading many reviews and comparisons I decided on this camera as it is the update to the Nikon D3000 that a friend of mine has.  They love their camera so I figured this was a good choice.  Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode so it acts like a point and shoot.  Compared to my Kodak point and shoot the pictures are great.  I love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy.  It looks like it should be but does not feel like it is.  It appears to be a very sturdy camera.Battery	As a first time Digital SLR buyer and user I love this camera and would highly recommend it to others.  We took about 300 pictures at a Thanksgiving get together and a few other people tried the camera out and were impressed as well.Battery	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.Battery	Battery life is not too greatBattery	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.Battery	Battery life seems to be very goodBattery	Battery life is not too great. Battery	y used point and shoot cameras in the past and have always had fun taking pictures.  I wanted to start digital photography as a hobbBattery	 Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Battery	This camera is very tight on power consumption and has extreme accuracy when you set it for pinpoint focusing as I do for model and portrait photography work.Battery	Battery lifeBattery	attery life is not too great.Battery	Battery life seems to be very good Battery	Battery life seems to be very good - longer Battery	 Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Battery	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Battery	Battery life seems to be very goodBattery	Battery life is not too greatBattery	 Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Battery	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.Battery	Battery life is not too great.Battery	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital CamerasBattery	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Battery	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. TBattery	 Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.Battery	Battery life seems to be very goodBattery	 Battery life is not too great. Battery	Battery life is not too greatBattery	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. Battery	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger with a swing-out plug.Battery	 Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.Battery	 Battery life is not too great.Battery	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.Battery	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Battery	Battery life is not too great.Battery	 Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.Battery	Battery life is not too greatBattery	. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everydayBattery	. Battery life is not too great#N/A	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow.General	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.General	I got it for 699  including the VR 55-200mm + camera bag with DVDGeneral	Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital CamerasGeneral	Excellent Beginners DSLRGeneral	T3i greater then nikon 5100Value	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much . But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazingValue	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.Value	the price is very reasonableValue	It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.Value	Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Value	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.  I conducted countless hours of research on Canons Nikons and even Sonys.  I was used to using point-and-shoots and small flip style video cameras to make my videos.  I looked into DSLRs and really wanted a canon.  YOU CANT GO WRONG WITH THIS CAMERA   It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.  It is very user Friendly and Fun to use.Value	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.Value	I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.Value	For the money the D3100 cant be beat.Value	save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lensValue	Excellent camera though a bit expensive - worth every penny.Value	They are worth every penny.Value	we dont need to compromise on quality or style.Value	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Value	Overall a very nice car seat for the price.Value	For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Value	It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.Value	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am sure the Nikon D5100 is a spectacular camera and it sports a larder image sensor than the Canon. I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.Value	lower than T2i Value	bottom line is that images from the D3100 are indistinguishable from the more expensive modelsValue	heck of a good dealValue	For the money the D3100 cant be beat.Value	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the moneyValue	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses.Value	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.Value	 I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.Value	For the money the D3100 cant be beat.Value	Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Value	It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.Value	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Value	  Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEATValue	I had been taking pictures with my roommates Canon EOS t2i for months and then I decided to get my own entry-level DSLR. Ive compared Canon EOS t2i with Nikon D3100 and finally I picked D3100. I am very happy about the decision.Value	The macro features are also on par with its more advanced and WAY higher priced big brothers to this cameraValue	great deal for the price. I understand each car seat has to meet standards but I have been please with this one and my husband just purchased an extra one to have in his 06Nissan FrontierValue	Love this car seat   After extensive research and practically being settled on the Britax Advocate I feel like you get what you pay forValue	Bonus- its wallet friendlyValue	dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonableValue	I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.Value	ts wallet friendlyValue	It isnt the cheapest seat out thereValue	Ive purchased SnugRides in the past but this is the first one to have a serious lack of adequate padding.  Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEAT#N/A	No autofocus when zooming while taking video#N/A	I conducted countless hours of research on Canons Nikons and even Sonys.  I was used to using point-and-shoots and small flip style video cameras to make my videos.  I looked into DSLRs and really wanted a canon.#N/A	I can not believe the quality and sound you would have thought I used a real video camera and not one from a camera#N/A	 I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good and my wife who is very difficult to please liked it so much that she said that next time we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100  I guess now i can finally retire my mini DV video camera.Buttons	Entry Level DSLRButtons	T2i is FASTButtons	Very fast autoButtons	uttons are spread evenlySturdy	ery sturdy #N/A	quick delivery#N/A	delivered one day after I ordered it online. #N/A	Amazon prime helped to get the delivery in a very shortest period which was not imaginableUpgrade	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3iUpgrade	 I am upgrading from a Canon XSIUpgrade	I upgraded from nikon D50 to this. So of course the pictures are much much better.Upgrade	#N/AUpgrade	#N/AUpgrade	#N/AUpgrade	#N/AUpgrade	#N/AUpgrade	#N/AUpgrade	#N/AUpgrade	#N/AUpgrade	#N/AUpgrade	#N/A#N/A	Battery life is not too great.#N/A	Battery life is not too great.#N/A	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.#N/A	. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.LCD Screen	 Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixelsLCD Screen	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.LCD Screen	2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.LCD Screen	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal. LCD Screen	I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possibleLCD Screen	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100. LCD Screen	flip out LCD screenLCD Screen	 LCD screenLCD Screen	Low resolution of LCD screenLCD Screen	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.LCD Screen	articulating LCD screenLCD Screen	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixelsLCD Screen	articulating LCD screenLCD Screen	I resisted and ended up waiting to purchase the T3i which was the best decision I made. At a glance the camera has a good feel to it and overall has the same features as the T2i. The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menuLCD Screen	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixelsLCD Screen	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screenLCD Screen	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen LCD Screen	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screenLCD Screen	articulating LCD screenLCD Screen	 Low resolution of LCD screen.LCD Screen	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screenLCD Screen	Low resolution of LCD screenLCD Screen	Low resolution of LCD screen. LCD Screen	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels.LCD Screen	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.LCD Screen	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. LCD Screen	 Low resolution of LCD screenLCD Screen	#N/ALCD Screen	#N/ALCD Screen	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.LCD Screen	I chose the t2i over t3i because I didnt feel I would need to use the movable lcd screen and couldnt justify spending that much money on it.LCD Screen	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge dealLCD Screen	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I takeLCD Screen	I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.  The view finder is very clear and has all basic settings info on the bottom border.LCD Screen	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.LCD Screen	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.LCD Screen	flip around screenLCD Screen	Low resolution of LCD screenLCD Screen	I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.LCD Screen	Low resolution of LCD screen.LCD Screen	T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screenLCD Screen	Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.LCD Screen	 I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.LCD Screen	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menuLCD Screen	 articulating LCD screen.LCD Screen	the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screenLCD Screen	the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take.LCD Screen	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.LCD Screen	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. LCD Screen	articulating LCD screenLCD Screen	No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.LCD Screen	I came to the decision that the only cameras I liked that felt good in my hand were the Canon T2i Nikon D5100 and the Can T3i. I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal.LCD Screen	0Built In Flash	Built-in flash is not so greatBuilt In Flash	uilt-in flash is not so greaBuilt In Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Built In Flash	Built-in flash is not so greatBuilt In Flash	hen taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shadeBuilt In Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. AlVideo Quality	 Takes good quality of videos.Video Quality	The best part was the 1080P video. I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good and my wife who is very difficult to please liked it so much that she said that next time we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100Video Quality	Takes good quality of videos.Video Quality	we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100Video Quality	 The best part was the 1080P video.Video Quality	the video truly being 1080pVideo Quality	Video I have taken alot for Football and I can not believe the quality and sound you would have thought I used a real video camera and not one from a cameraVideo Quality	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDINGVideo Quality	Oh and the video.....Its 1080p HDVideo Quality	The best part was the 1080P video. I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so goodVideo Quality	 The best part was the 1080P video. I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good and my wife who is very difficult to please liked it so much that she said that next time we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100Video Quality	Takes good quality of videos.Video Quality	lets talk Video I have taken alot for Football and I can not believe the quality and sound you would have thought I used a real video camera and not one from a cameraVideo Quality	Takes good quality of videos.Video Quality	The best part was the 1080P video. I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good and my wife who is very difficult to please liked it so much that she said that next time we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100  I guess now i can finally retire my mini DV video cameraVideo Quality	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasVideo Quality	Oh and the video.....Its 1080p HD nothing more needs to be said. Video Quality	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menu. The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not. I am a person to read through and learn the various features the camera has to offer. I am impressed with the lens that comes with the camera for the wide angle aspect of it due to a lot of places I shoot pictures there are a lot of people and requires me to get close to get the shot I wantVideo Quality	3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Video Quality	60fps HD RecordingVideo Quality	1080p HDVideo Quality	3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allVideo Quality	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the pictureVideo Quality	went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screenStart Up Speed	Fast start up speedStart Up Speed	Fast start up speedStart Up Speed	Fast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondStart Up Speed	Fast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondStart Up Speed	Fast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondShutter Speed	  The T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to.  It makes a huge difference knowing you can press the shutter and the camera will instantly take a pictureShutter Speed	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Shutter Speed	What sold me was the guide modeShutter Speed	  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to.  It makes a huge difference knowing you can press the shutter and the camera will instantly take a picture.  The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Shutter Speed	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Shutter Speed	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Shutter Speed	3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allShutter Speed	Slower than T2i Shutter Speed	Minimal shutter lagShutter Speed	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhyShutter Speed	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasShutter Speed	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoShutter Speed	The T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to.  It makes a huge difference knowing you can press the shutter and the camera will instantly take a picture.  The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Shutter Speed	rs the 3.7 fps its supposed to.  It makes a huge difference knowing you can press the shutter and#N/A	Eventhough i got this for a normal price i love this camera like anything. Being a beginner in photographyi took much time to decide on models between T2iT3i and 60D. Atlast i bought T3i and i am very much satisfied with the product.#N/A	Picture quality on this t2i is stunning#N/A	Compared to my Kodak point and shoot the pictures are great.#N/A	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.#N/A	Built-in flash is not so great. HD Video	.Its 1080p HHD Video	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion HD Video	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iCons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingHD Video	60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion HD Video	 The best part was the 1080P video. I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good and my wife who is very difficult to please liked it so much that she said that next time we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100HD Video	ull-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR CameraCustomer Service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service	  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service	I purchased this seat because it was rated Customer Service	They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Customer Service	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers Customer Service	customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised.Customer Service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers Customer Service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of chargeCustomer Service	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service	they sent me a new cover Customer Service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of chargeCustomer Service	 companies who please their customers Customer Service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service	Both were delivered super fast and in perfect condition.Customer Service	came within 2 business days even though I did standard shipping.Customer Service	The car seat was delivered one day after I ordered it online.Customer Service	customer service with pictures and they sent me a new coverCustomer Service	They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Customer Service	  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprisedCustomer Service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of chargeCustomer Service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new coverCustomer Service	 they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of chargeCustomer Service	After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directlyCustomer Service	free of chargeCustomer Service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers Customer Service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers Customer Service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service	they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers Customer Service	customer serviceCustomer Service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of chargeCustomer Service	  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level.Customer Service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service	  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  Customer Service	 Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers Customer Service	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Customer Service	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick. One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers Customer Service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service	customer serviceCustomer Service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of chargeCustomer Service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Installation	extremely difficult to install it rear facingInstallation	pretty easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easyInstallation	The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it rightInstallation	Easy to installInstallation	easly instaled it in the carInstallation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes.Installation	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	easy to installInstallation	The instructions were a little hard for me to followInstallation	Install was exteremly easyInstallation	really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securelyInstallation	a little difficult to installInstallation	It is so easy to use and installInstallation	The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well.Installation	My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing.Installation	They were pretty easy to installInstallation	The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it rightInstallation	Easy to install via my hubbyInstallation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutesInstallation	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Installation	Easy to installInstallation	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow remember now I am the grandma and over 50 so please keep it simple   I did end up having my son install it for meInstallation	 easly instaled it in the car.Installation	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securelyInstallation	this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move aroundInstallation	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstallation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsInstallation	it was easyInstallation	They are easy to install especially as compared to the graco one we bought first.Installation	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow remember now I am the grandma and over 50 so please keep it simple   I did end up having my son install it for me. Installation	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick. Installation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation	The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well.Installation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes.Installation	Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in.Installation	Rear facing is the safest way for small children to travel when in a car.  After purchasing this seat we took it for a test drive literally with the baby in it.  He seemed very comfortable in it and I liked that the extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.  I love the no rethread harness and although it took me a bit to figure out how to work it it is still fairly simple and much preferrable over the rethread type.Now for the cons.  The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car. I currently live in Japan where my hubby is currently stationed with the USMC.  We drive a large van similar to the old Chevy Astro van.  This seat would onlt fit in the 2nd row in the middle seating position so that it came up almost through the 2 front seats.  I doubt this seat would fit into any other position in any car.  My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing. Between my 3 kids Ive been through about 6 different convertible car seats in the past 8 years and this one was by far the most difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt.  At one point or another Ive had to install all of my previous car seats rear facing with the vehicle belt.  The instructions say to lift the seat pad when threading the belt through which I did but then once the seat was installed I couldnt get the pad back down over the seat where it was against the seat back of the actual vehicle seat.  So I had to uninstall it and reinstall it with the pad in its proper place making it very difficult to do.Installation	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it rightInstallation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes.Installation	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.  light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Installation	It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Installation	 VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation	fit really well in all cars.Installation	Easy to installInstallation	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow remember now I am the grandma and over 50 so please keep it simple Installation	install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsInstallation	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.Installation	 but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seatInstallation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutesInstallation	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securelyInstallation	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstallation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsInstallation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions. Installation	easly instaled iInstallation	They were pretty easy to install Installation	VERY easy to install base Installation	Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Installation	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.Installation	 a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstallation	easy to install base iInstallation	out 7 minutesInstallation	little difficult to install but you get thInstallation	set this up in about 7 minutesInstallation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsInstallation	It is so easy to use and installInstallation	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction bookletInstallation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation	its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.Installation	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely. Installation	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars.Installation	Easy to installInstallation	VERY easy to install base in car.Installation	Easy to install via my hubbyInstallation	installInstallation	trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever.Installation	little difficult to installInstallation	set this up iInstallation	It is so easy to use and install Installation	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstallation	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.Installation	Easy to installInstallation	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation	Easy to install Installation	s easy if you read the instructions. Installation	 little difficult to install Installation	 so easy to use and install Installation	 it was a little tricky to get it inInstallation	instructions were simple Installation	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	  The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well. Installation	  The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well.Installation	It is so easy to use and install Installation	  Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.Installation	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow Installation	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Installation	My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facingInstallation	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Installation	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.Installation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutesInstallation	Easy to installInstallation	The instructions were a little hard for me to followInstallation	Install was exteremly easyInstallation	I opened the box and easly instaled it in the carInstallation	but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever.Installation	The instructions say to lift the seat pad when threading the belt through which I did but then once the seat was installed I couldnt get the pad back down over the seat where it was against the seat back of the actual vehicle seat.  So I had to uninstall it and reinstall it with the pad in its proper place making it very difficult to do.Installation	The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as welInstallation	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	as difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securelyInstallation	little difficult to instalInstallation	  Install was exteremly easyInstallation	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions firstInstallation	Easy to installInstallation	VERY easy to install base in car.Installation	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutesInstallation	 Easy to install Installation	My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing.Installation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsInstallation	It is so easy to use and installInstallation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes.Installation	Easy to installInstallation	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsInstallation	Easy to installInstallation	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	 Easy to install Installation	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	difficult to installInstallation	They are easy to install especially as compared to the graco one we bought firstInstallation	easly instaled it in the carInstallation	trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely Installation	difficult to installInstallation	 VERY easy to installInstallation	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our carsInstallation	 VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes.Installation	Easy to install via my hubby Installation	  My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing. Installation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions. Installation	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Installation	.  I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars.  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.  Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Installation	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.  Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.  Ive felt a lot of other car seats out there that feel like theyd be pretty hard to sit on and uncomfortable.Installation	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow remember now I am the grandma and over 50 so please keep it simple   I did end up having my son install it for me.Installation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Installation	 Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Installation	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.Installation	They were pretty easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats. Installation	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation	 I have a 2003 Maxima which has a slight bump in the middleInstallation	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.Installation	 easly instaled it in the carInstallation	#N/AInstallation	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	 VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	Easy to installInstallation	Easy to installInstallation	really easy to installInstallation	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.Installation	easly instaled it in the carInstallation	Easy to installInstallation	 VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.Installation	Easy to installInstallation	Easy to installInstallation	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.Installation	  My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing. Between my 3 kids Ive been through about 6 different convertible car seats in the past 8 years and this one was by far the most difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt.  At one point or another Ive had to install all of my previous car seats rear facing with the vehicle belt.  The instructions say to lift the seat pad when threading the belt through which I did but then once the seat was installed I couldnt get the pad back down over the seat where it was against the seat back of the actual vehicle seat.  So I had to uninstall it and reinstall it with the pad in its proper place making it very difficult to do.Installation	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation	#N/AInstallation	The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it rightInstallation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions. I have a 2003 Maxima which has a slight bump in the middleInstallation	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation	It is so easy to use and install Installation	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.Installation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. Installation	Easy to install via my hubbyInstallation	The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.Installation	The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as wellInstallation	VERY easy to install base in car.Installation	Easy to installInstallation	easly instaledInstallation	from when I opened the box and easly instaled it in the carInstallation	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	#N/AInstallation	#N/AInstallation	#N/AInstallation	#N/AInstallation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsInstallation	Easy to installInstallation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutesInstallation	easly instaled it in the car.Installation	Easy to install via my hubbyInstallation	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	It is so easy to use and installInstallation	but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation	  It is so easy to use and install Installation	 so easy to use and installInstallation	VERY easy to install base in car. Installation	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation	 instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it rightInstallation	My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing.Installation	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level.Installation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation	It is so easy to use and installInstallation	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Installation	its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstallation	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securelyInstallation	set this up in about 7 minutesInstallation	If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction bookletInstallation	easly instaled it in the carInstallation	side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levelsInstallation	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	it was easy if you read the instructionsInstallation	a little difficult to install Installation	Easy to installInstallation	easly instaled itInstallation	Easy to install Installation	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	ros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.Installation	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.  light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.Installation	 I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation	It is so easy to use and install Installation	Easy to instalInstallation	difficult to install it rear facingInstallation	VERY easy to install base in car.Installation	VERY easy to install base in car.Installation	  It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Installation	Big enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsInstallation	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.Installation	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Installation	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsInstallation	My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facingInstallation	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation	You do need a seat protector but youd need that with any car seat.  I also dont like some of the colors but that is personal preference.Installation	 set this up in about 7 minutes.Installation	I have a 2003 Maxima which has a slight bump in the middleInstallation	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.Installation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes.Installation	 it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	 set this up in about 7 minutInstallation	 easly instaled it in the car.Installation	 I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsInstallation	It is so easy to use and install Installation	  Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.Installation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutesInstallation	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever.Installation	pretty easy to installInstallation	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives.Installation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation	  I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.Installation	Install was exteremly easyInstallation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes.Installation	easly instaled it in the car.Installation	My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facingInstallation	VERY easy to install base in car.Installation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsInstallation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutesInstallation	 VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation	  It is so easy to use and install Installation	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.Installation	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.Installation	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsInstallation	  Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars.Installation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Installation	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Installation	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Installation	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra.Installation	They were pretty easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats.Installation	Between my 3 kids Ive been through about 6 different convertible car seats in the past 8 years and this one was by far the most difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt.  At one point or another Ive had to install all of my previous car seats rear facing with the vehicle belt.  The instructions say to lift the seat pad when threading the belt through which I did but then once the seat was installed I couldnt get the pad back down over the seat where it was against the seat back of the actual vehicle seat.  So I had to uninstall it and reinstall it with the pad in its proper place making it very difficult to do.Installation	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation	 VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Installation	 But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing. My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.Installation	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars. Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. Installation	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Installation	dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. Installation	  Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars. Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. All I can say is this was a great purchase for our family.Installation	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Installation	difficult to install in carInstallation	 set this up in about 7 minutesInstallation	 Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Installation	  It is so easy to use and installInstallation	easly instaled it in the carInstallation	Easy to installInstallation	cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the boxInstallation	 read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions. I have a 2003 Maxima which has a sligInstallation	It is so easy to use and install Installation	es its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick. One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of aInstallation	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quicklyInstallation	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars.Installation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutesInstallation	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the sInstallation	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstallation	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.Installation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes.Installation	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.Installation	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars.Installation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation	so easy to use and installInstallation	Easy to installInstallation	  The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well. Installation	The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.Installation	VERY easy to install base in car.Installation	They are easy to install especially as compared to the graco one we bought first. The no rethread harness is awesome. The seat was comfortable looking and big enough rear facing all the way until two years old which is what the apa recommends.Installation	easly instaled it in the caPerformance - Speed	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance - Speed	60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Performance - Speed	Fast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPerformance - Speed	No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issuePerformance - Speed	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhyPerformance - Speed	Fast start up speedPerformance - Speed	the 18.1MP sensor.....WOWPerformance - Speed	  The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous modePerformance - Speed	I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picturPerformance - Speed	he ISO firmware issuePerformance - Speed	The best part was the 1080P video. Performance - Speed	hat images from the D3100 are indistinguishable from the more expensive modelsPerformance - Speed	Fast start up speedPerformance - Speed	decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keepPerformance - Speed	ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Performance - Speed	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Performance - Speed	Slower than T2i Performance - Speed	Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.Focus	Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFocus	 Very fast auto focus on shooting.Focus	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFocus	video manual focusFocus	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFocus	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Focus	I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor.Focus	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFocus	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.Focus	Focus in live picture mode is slowFocus	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor.Focus	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the pictureFocus	Focus in live picture mode is slowFocus	Almost no low light auto focus Focus	 FocusFocus	built-in focus motorFocus	Very fast auto focus on shootingFocus	Focus in live picture mode is slowFocus	Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFocus	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingFocus	4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Focus	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. Focus	#NAME?Focus	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focusFocus	Focus in live picture mode is slowFocus	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow.Focus	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Focus	#NAME?Focus	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor.Focus	#N/AFocus	#N/AFocus	Almost no low light auto focusFocus	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Focus	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor.Focus	Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFocus	Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFocus	Almost no low light auto focusFocus	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow.Focus	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Focus	Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFocus	Almost no low light auto focusFocus	No autofocus when zooming while taking videoFocus	I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.Focus	#NAME?Focus	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Focus	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasHeavy	 heavyLightweight	again good for trips.Lightweight	1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shootinLightweight	t.  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Holds Child Up To 65 Pounds	  So I had to uninstall it and reinstall it with the pad in its proper place making it very difficult to do.Easy To Install	I also find it really easy to installEasy To Install	easy to use and install Easy To Install	really easy to installEasy To Install	VERY easy to install base in carEasy To Install	It is so easy to use and instalEasy To Install	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutesEasy To Install	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. Easy To Install	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsEasy To Install	VERY easy to install base in car. Easy To Install	from when I opened the box and easly instaled it in the carEasy To Install	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.Easy To Install	It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great productEasy To Install	 VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.  light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.Installing	y other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing. Between my 3 kids Ive been through about 6 different convertible car seats in the past 8 years and this one was by far the most difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt.  At one point or another Ive had to install all of my previous car seats rear facing with the vehicle belt.Installing	 The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it rightInstalling	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Installing	I love this chair. from when I opened the box and easly instaled it in the car.Installing	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Installing	 VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installing	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow remember now I am the grandma and over 50 so please keep it simple Installing	It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great producInstalling	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installing	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsInstalling	easy to use and installInstalling	difficult to install Installing	easy to install please do read all the directions firstInstalling	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutesInstalling	Easy to install via my hubbyInstalling	The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Installing	 I was able to fit it easily and securelyInstalling	easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids growInstalling	this one was by far the most difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt.Material	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Material	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyMaterial	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers Material	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyMaterial	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyMaterial	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyMaterial	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Material	excellent padding and very nice soft fabricMaterial	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyMaterial	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happenMaterial	seat cover became scratchyMaterial	 dont need to compromise on quality or styleMaterial	 One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Material	This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well.Material	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skinMaterial	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Material	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Material	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Material	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skinMaterial	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Material	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Material	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Material	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.Material	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Material	This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well.Material	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Material	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyMaterial	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin.Material	The material was soft and fuzzyMaterial	excellent padding and very nice soft fabricMaterial	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Material	Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEATMaterial	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Material	 It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyMaterial	seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyMaterial	material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happenMaterial	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingMaterial	material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyMaterial	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Material	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyMaterial	Material is easy to cleanMaterial	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Material	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyMaterial	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Material	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Material	but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Material	suede-like plush material -- free of charge  Material	he material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Material	comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyMaterial	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Material	cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Material	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Material	This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped in.Material	 a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick. One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Cleaning	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easilyCleaning	Material is easy to cleanCleaning	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come offCleaning	All that to say - I still love a lot of things about this carseat but I do NOT love cleaning it.Cleaning	the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.Cleaning	material is easy to take off and machine washCleaning	Some of the reviews complain that the Air  wings  cause problems for the kid seeing out but their height is adjustable AND I really like that when my daughter falls asleep they hold her head up so its not bobbing all over the place.The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.  Thats not so bad since she did not puke on that part except that I was not aware that the headrest pad is attached to another pad that continues down the back behind the main pad   So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.  Im having quite an interesting time getting the nasty puke smell out of it.All that to say - I still love a lot of things about this carseat but I do NOT love cleaning it.Cleaning	NOT love cleaning it.Cleaning	the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.Cleaning	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.Cleaning	but I do NOT love cleaning itCleaning	o not clean easily   Cleaning	the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come offCleaning	easy to clean Cleaning	material is easy to take off and machine wash Cleaning	My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come offCleaning	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come offCleaning	Material is easy to clean Cleaning	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCleaning	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Cleaning	do not clean easilyCleaning	My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.  Thats not so bad since she did not puke on that part except that I was not aware that the headrest pad is attached to another pad that continues down the back behind the main pad   So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.  Im having quite an interesting time getting the nasty puke smell out of it.Cleaning	do not clean easily Cleaning	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.  Thats not so bad since she did not puke on that part except that I was not aware that the headrest pad is attached to another pad that continues down the back behind the main pad   So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.  Im having quite an interesting time getting the nasty puke smell out of it.All that to say - I still love a lot of things about this carseat but I do NOT love cleaning it.Cleaning	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.Cleaning	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily Cleaning	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come offCleaning	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCleaning	do not clean easilyCleaning	needs to be cleaned by handCleaning	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.Cleaning	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easilyCleaning	the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by handCleaning	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCleaning	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily Cleaning	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.  Thats not so bad since she did not puke on that part except that I was not aware that the headrest pad is attached to another pad that continues down the back behind the main pad   So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.  Im having quite an interesting time getting the nasty puke smell out of it.Cleaning	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come offCleaning	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily Cleaning	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCleaning	All that to say - I still love a lot of things about this carseat but I do NOT love cleaning it.Performance Speed	decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhyUser Friendliness	y I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto modeUser Friendliness	solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand gripLow Weight	Relatively lightUse For Beginners	if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lensesDelays	frequent and unpredictable delaysDelays	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous modeDelays	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Delays	.  The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Feel	It is as many have explained before a little small as I was used to the bigger and heavier 20D body but I guess is just a matter of getting used to it.Feel	Somewhat Compact sizeEase of useFeel	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Feel	  I love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy.  It looks like it should be but does not feel like it is.  It appears to be a very sturdy camera.Feel	Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.Feel	.  I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.User Friendly	a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.  I chose to purchase the camera body separately so that I could pair it with the EF-S 17-55mm f/2.8 IS USM lens.  Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera.  Ive taken some stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens combo.  Save yourself the headache of working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body.  Pair it with the lens of your choice but I have no regrets with my 17-55mm purchase.User Friendly	It is very user Friendly and Fun to use.User Friendly	Being a beginner in photographyUser Friendly	Easy to operate.User Friendly	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menu. The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not.Autofocus 	Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors.Autofocus 	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the pictureAutofocus 	auto focusAutofocus 	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. Autofocus 	No autofocusAutofocus 	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forAutofocus 	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Autofocus 	Very fast auto focus on shootingAutofocus 	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Autofocus 	 Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFlip Out Screen	It is GREAT for skate/surf video because of its 60fps mode.  If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraFlip Out Screen	After searching and searching for a DSLR camera I had almost convinced myself of the T2i. I resisted and ended up waiting to purchase the T3i which was the best decision I made. At a glance the camera has a good feel to it and overall has the same features as the T2i. The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take.Flip Out Screen	Im a film student and was trying to decide between a t3i and Nikon 5100. everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera. the 600d has better continuous recording you have better manual capabilities. after a lot research i decided to go with the canon i went with a t3i and not a t2i for the flip around screen. i shoot in awkward positions sometimes and it defiantly comes in handyOperation	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Operation	The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.Operation	makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode.Operation	Easy to operateOperation	capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modesOperation	capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modesOperation	Easy to operate.Operation	 Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Grainy Pictures	 grain in the pictureLow Light	shoots great in low lighting settingsLow Light	shoots great in low lighting settings. all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels natural. Low Light	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoLow Light	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shadeLow Light	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingLow Light	hoots great in low lighting settings. Low Light	The  better sensor  in the D5100 and D7000 at best has a bit more low light sensitivity Low Light	 shoots great in low lighting settings. Flip Out LCD	Low resolution of LCD screen.Flip Out LCD	flip out LCD screenFlip Out LCD	No Flip-out LCDComfort	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable Comfort	My child is so comfortableComfort	I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.Comfort	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingComfort	nice fabric thats soft to the touchComfort	excellent padding and very nice soft fabricComfort	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyComfort	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerComfort	my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Comfort	comfortable on my babys skin.Comfort	Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.  Ive felt a lot of other car seats out there that feel like theyd be pretty hard to sit on and uncomfortable.Comfort	well constructed and pretty comfyComfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inComfort	raco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.Comfort	Fit my newborns head with the extra cushion that came with it.Comfort	My child is so comfortable Comfort	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Comfort	he seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.Comfort	 The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyComfort	well constructed and pretty comfyComfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Comfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort	I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seatComfort	 May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summersComfort	head/neck support cushionComfort	there is absolutely NO paddingComfort	extra cushion that came with itComfort	comes with head/neck support cushionComfort	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. Comfort	Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra. As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once.Comfort	 be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Comfort	very comfortableComfort	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for herComfort	My child is so comfortable Comfort	my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Comfort	He still falls asleep with ease.Comfort	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Comfort	excellent padding and very nice soft fabricComfort	very comfortable for a little babyComfort	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerComfort	Install was exteremly easyComfort	comfortable on my babys skinComfort	comfortable for my son.Comfort	my son LOVES itComfort	 My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. Comfort	fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inComfort	This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped inComfort	provides comfert for her.Comfort	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingComfort	 Fit my newborns head with the extra cushionComfort	When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Comfort	very comfortable for a little babyComfort	So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plasticComfort	When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyesComfort	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyComfort	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerComfort	He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all hereComfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort	NO paddingComfort	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Comfort	very comfortable for a little babyComfort	My son fits comfortably in itComfort	my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.Comfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seatComfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room versesComfort	head/neck support cushion.Comfort	theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic. Comfort	comfortableComfort	fits comfortablyComfort	very comfortable Comfort	fit fine and snug Comfort	o much room verses his carrier car seatComfort	padded well and comfortable for my son.Comfort	bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfyComfort	Big enough for a toddlerComfort	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerComfort	 material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable forComfort	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Comfort	sun visorComfort	baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Comfort	comfortable and appears to be very safeComfort	breathe so she remains a comfortable temperatureComfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.  Comfort	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerComfort	my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Comfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much roomComfort	He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all hereComfort	seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyComfort	comfortable on my babys skinComfort	material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babComfort	regretting the black fabric in Texas summers thoughComfort	biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyesComfort	but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thicknessComfort	its a very tight space to use the light blue head rests Comfort	for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEATComfort	daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windowsComfort	My child is so comfortable Comfort	extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.  I love the no rethread harnessComfort	its very comfortableComfort	first one to have a serious lack of adequate paddingComfort	 likes being in the seat and able to look out of the windows Comfort	He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all hereComfort	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfyComfort	This will even work for newborns.Comfort	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seatComfort	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Comfort	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Comfort	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it.Comfort	shoots great in low lighting settings. all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels natural. Comfort	It appears to be a very sturdy camera.Comfort	For ease of use IQ form factor Comfort	Love this car seat   After extensive research and practically being settled on the Britax Advocate I feel like you get what you pay for I was told about this car seat and figured I would give it a try.  Worse case I would just use it in my husbands car and then order the Britax for my car.  No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.  I am going to order another one of these for my husbands car.  It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Comfort	This is a great car seat. I did a lot of research on safety price etc. before buying this one.  I actually bought two one for my car and one for my husbands car.  We were very pleased with it.  Both were delivered super fast and in perfect condition.  Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars. Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. All I can say is this was a great purchase for our family.Comfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort	 absolutely love this car seat. It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. I highly recommend this it item.Comfort	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Comfort	paddedComfort	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Comfort	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it.Comfort	ou can recline it at 3 different levels.Comfort	there is absolutely NO paddingComfort	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerComfort	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secureComfort	He seemed very comfortable in it Comfort	 its very comfortable and appears to be very safeComfort	very comfortable for a little babyComfort	Not much padding in the seat part..Comfort	It fit fine and snug as can beComfort	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secureComfort	very comfortable for a little babyComfort	So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plasticComfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inComfort	No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all hereComfort	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyComfort	there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Comfort	son LOVES itComfort	comfortable for my sonComfort	 I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.Comfort	#N/AComfort	#N/AComfort	#N/AComfort	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyComfort	excellent padding and very nice soft fabricComfort	nice fabric thats soft to the touchComfort	but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingComfort	he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to himComfort	I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.Comfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inComfort	But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing. My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions. Comfort	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyComfort	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Comfort	  Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars. Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skinComfort	So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.Comfort	It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. I highly recommend this it item.Comfort	his car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well. Overall a very nice car seat for the priceComfort	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Comfort	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.Comfort	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyComfort	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. Comfort	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Comfort	For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Comfort	Normally he literally fights and struggles when it is time to get into the the car but not this time.Comfort	my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Comfort	. Even though my son isnt quiet 1 yet he was ready for a more toddler friendly seat. This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him. I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.Comfort	He seemed very comfortable in it and I liked that the extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.Comfort	The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRsComfort	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerComfort	soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyComfort	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on itComfort	comfert for herComfort	the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my sonComfort	My son fits comfortably in it Comfort	  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.  Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Comfort	 My child is so comfortableComfort	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyComfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort	my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.Comfort	Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.  Ive felt a lot of other car seats out there that feel like theyd be pretty hard to sit on and uncomfortable.Comfort	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerComfort	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it.Comfort	He seemed very comfortable in it and I liked that the extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.Comfort	comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Comfort	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Comfort	#N/AComfort	#N/AComfort	But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing. My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort	 My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort	Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do. Again my little girl likes being in the seat and able to look out of the windows at the world around her.Comfort	This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped in.Comfort	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinkingComfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inComfort	 Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seatComfort	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerComfort	very comfortableComfort	#N/AComfort	#N/AComfort	#N/AComfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inComfort	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Comfort	my son LOVES itComfort	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Comfort	I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.Comfort	my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Comfort	My child is so comfortableComfort	very comfortable for a little babyComfort	 My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inComfort	Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much . But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing. My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions. I have a 2003 Maxima which has a slight bump in the middleComfort	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.Comfort	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Comfort	this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.Comfort	seat seams padded well and comfortableComfort	comfortablyComfort	seat cover became scratchyComfort	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerComfort	 provides comfertComfort	He seemed very comfortableComfort	very comfortableComfort	very comfortable for a little babyComfort	This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touchComfort	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsComfort	It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levelsComfort	this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.Comfort	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well.Comfort	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large tComfort	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Comfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort	Overall were really happy with this car seat.  It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.Comfort	fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Comfort	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh.Comfort	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Comfort	 Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Comfort	No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.Comfort	a more toddler friendly seatComfort	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels.Comfort	 My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort	where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingComfort	He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.Comfort	I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat.Comfort	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her.Comfort	My child is so comfortable Comfort	 its very comfortableComfort	  This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped in.Comfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort	this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.Comfort	Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.  Ive felt a lot of other car seats out there that feel like theyd be pretty hard to sit on and uncomfortable.Comfort	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsComfort	The seat was comfortable looking and big enough rear facing all the way until two years old which is what the apa recommends.Comfort	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin.Comfort	Even though my son isnt quiet 1 yet he was ready for a more toddler friendly seat. This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him. I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat.Comfort	Even though my son isnt quiet 1 yet he was ready for a more toddler friendly seat. This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him. I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat.Comfort	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Comfort	Normally he literally fights and struggles when it is time to get into the the car but not this time. I love this chair  My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Comfort	After purchasing this seat we took it for a test drive literally with the baby in it.  He seemed very comfortable in it and I liked that the extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.  I love the no rethread harness and although it took me a bit to figure out how to work it it is still fairly simple and much preferrable over the rethread type.Comfort	I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit.  It is so high in fact that my 3 1/2 year old would still be able to be rear facing in this seatComfort	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.Comfort	I absolutely love this car seat. It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Comfort	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. Comfort	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well. Overall a very nice car seat for the price.Comfort	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well. Overall a very nice car seat for the price.Comfort	It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. I highly recommend this it item.Comfort	This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Comfort	excellent padding and very nice soft fabricComfort	 the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out.Comfort	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Comfort	 But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing. My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Comfort	No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.  I am going to order another one of these for my husbands car.  It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Comfort	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars. Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. Comfort	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsComfort	Im glad we had the Chicco Keyfit 30 when our guy was an infant. Im sure this is safe enough but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient. Even though my son isnt quiet 1 yet he was ready for a more toddler friendly seat. This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him. I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.Comfort	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it. Im just thinking how happy she will be when she gets turned around in a few months. This will even work for newborns. if I had known that I would have gotten this a long time ago.Comfort	It fit fine and snug as can be. What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small. Comfort	  He seemed very comfortable in it and I liked that the extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.  I love the no rethread harness and although it took me a bit to figure out how to work it it is still fairly simple and much preferrable over the rethread type.Comfort	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.  Some seats seemed too bulky and I know my daughter would be a sweaty mess in those styles.  This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped in.  The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well. Comfort	So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.Comfort	eat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Comfort	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Comfort	protects my little girl and it provides comfert for herComfort	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secureComfort	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Comfort	 its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.Comfort	 its very comfortable and appears to be very safe. Comfort	I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfyComfort	provides comfert for her.Comfort	very comfortableComfort	very nice fabric thats soft to the touchComfort	where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingComfort	My child is so comfortableComfort	 this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyesComfort	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.  Some seats seemed too bulky and I know my daughter would be a sweaty mess in those styles.  This seat seems to breathe so she remainsComfort	my 2 year old became giddy with excitement. Normally he literally fights and struggles when it is time to get into the the car but not this time. I love this chair  My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure. I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. TheComfort	He seemed very comfortable in it and I liked that the extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.  I love the noComfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inComfort	This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him.Comfort	my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Comfort	 My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Comfort	recline it at 3 different levelComfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much roomComfort	comfortableComfort	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Comfort	Not much padding in the seat partSpace	The seat is gigantic. Space	has so much roomSpace	Very bulky.Space	has so much roomSpace	Big enough for a toddlerSpace	Very bulky. Space	it is a big car seatSpace	The seat is giganticSpace	 its a very tight spaceRemovable Head Rest	the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still smallRemovable Head Rest	head rest is removableRemovable Head Rest	head rest is removableRemovable Head Rest	head rest is removableRemovable Head Rest	head rest is removableRemovable Head Rest	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Removable Head Rest	  My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.Hard To Clean	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.  Thats not so bad since she did not puke on that part except that I was not aware that the headrest pad is attached to another pad that continues down the back behind the main pad   So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.  Im having quite an interesting time getting the nasty puke smell out of it.All that to say - I still love a lot of things about this carseat but I do NOT love cleaning it.Hard To Clean	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come offAuto Focus	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Auto Focus	Almost no low light auto focusAuto Focus	uto focus in  live view  mode Auto Focus	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Auto Focus	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Auto Focus	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow.Auto Focus	Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasAuto Focus	Almost no low light auto focusAuto Focus	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Auto Focus	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Auto Focus	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Auto Focus	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Auto Focus	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingAuto Focus	 No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasAuto Focus	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Auto Focus	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Auto Focus	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Auto Focus	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slowAuto Focus	No autofocus when zooming while taking videoAuto Focus	No autofocus when zooming while taking videoAuto Focus	Very fast auto focus on shootingAuto Focus	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow.Auto Focus	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingAuto Focus	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Auto Focus	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Auto Focus	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Auto Focus	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow.Auto Focus	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Service	Canon service is apparently better than nikon. Service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers Service	Canon service is apparently better than nikon.Service	Canon service is apparently better than nikon.Service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Service	Canon service is apparently better than nikon.Service	customer serviceService	Canon service is apparently better than nikon.Service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Service	After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base.Service	Canon service is apparently better than nikonService	Canon service is apparently better than nikonService	Canon service is apparently better than nikon.Service	sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised.Service	  We are able to use our Britax Marathon a Graco booster and this infant car seat all in one row.  This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  IFIt	It fit fine and snug as can be.FIt	I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars.FIt	light bump in the middleFIt	doesnt move aroundFIt	size is pretty bigFIt	Big enough for a toddlerFIt	seat is gigantic.FIt	It fit fine and snug as can beFIt	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inFIt	This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to himFIt	fit fineFIt	fine and snug as canFIt	 It fit fine and snug as can beFIt	The seat is gigantic.FIt	fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.FIt	fits comfortably in it and has so much roomFIt	It fit fine and snug as can beFIt	car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move aroundFIt	not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is levelFIt	with the side impact shaping its a very tight space to use the light blue head rests shown in the listing picture.  I havent tested it out yet but just from the appearance I can tell its not going to workFIt	 My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inFIt	I was able to fit it easilyFIt	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.FIt	  Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.FIt	 This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him. I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.FIt	#N/AFIt	#N/AFIt	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.FIt	ts very comfortable and appears to be very safeFIt	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.FIt	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.FIt	 My son fits comfortably in itFIt	#N/AFIt	it has fit really well in all carsFIt	Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do. Again my little girl likes being in the seat and able to look out of the windows at the world around her. I would recommend this product to anyone I knew who was in need of a good car seat.FIt	 It fit fine and snug as can be.FIt	 fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Use	The T2i is FASTUse	adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual modeUse	view finder is very clearInstall	  The instructions say to lift the seat pad when threading the belt through which I did but then once the seat was installed I couldnt get the pad back down over the seat where it was against the seat back of the actual vehicle seat.  So I had to uninstall it and reinstall it with the pad in its proper place making it very difficult to do.Install	Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do. Install	easy to installInstall	easly instaled it in the car.Install	set this up in about 7 minutes. If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Install	pretty easy to installInstall	The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.Install	The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Install	Easy to installInstall	Easy to installInstall	easly instaled it in the carInstall	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base.Install	VERY easy to install base in car.Install	VERY easy to install base in car.Install	VERY easy to install base in carInstall	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. Install	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing.Install	ts a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstall	easy to use and install Install	Easy to installInstall	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there Install	easy to install especially as compared to the gracoInstall	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Install	 it really easy to install please do read all the directions firstInstall	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.Install	its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstall	It is so easy to use and install Install	a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstall	so easy to use and installInstall	it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Install	difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsInstall	VERY easy to install base in carInstall	little difficult to installInstall	little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstall	it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Install	easy to use and installInstall	es its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstall	 seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars.  Install	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.Install	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our carsInstall	I did end up having my son install it for me. Install	hey are easy to install especially Install	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. Install	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Install	 easly instaled it in the car.Install	extremely difficult to install it rear facingInstall	 I had to uninstall it and reinstall it with the pad in its proper place making it very difficult to doInstall	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Install	It is so easy to use and install   Install	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Install	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.Install	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.Install	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Install	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Install	I have been using the graco snug ride 30 metropolis for 2 months now. So far I am only satisfied with this car seat.pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Install	 I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsInstall	little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstall	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. Baby Comfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Baby Comfort	 seat cover became scratchy.Baby Comfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we broughtBaby Comfort	comes with head/neck support cushionBaby Comfort	excellent padding and very nice soft fabricBaby Comfort	 serious lack of adequate padding.Baby Comfort	 sure this is safe enough but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient. Baby Comfort	y child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure. Baby Comfort	 seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature Roomy	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Roomy	roomierDetachable Cup Holder	detachable one in the boxEasy Installation	It is so easy to use and installEasy Installation	but it was easy if you read the instructions. Easy Installation	asly instaled it in the car. Easy Installation	Easy to installEasy Installation	VERY easy to install base in carEasy Installation	trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.Easy Installation	I love this chair. from when I opened the box and easly instaled it in the car. it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it. Im just thinking how happy she will be when she gets turned around in a few months. This will even work for newborns. if I had known that I would have gotten this a long time ago.Easy Installation	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars. Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. All I can say is this was a great purchase for our family.Bulky	We love these carseats.  It is a big seat especially rear facing.  We have a Sienna mini van and we had them both on the bench seat.  Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards. They would have rested on the middle seats.  Other than that it is an awesome seat.  It holds the girls very secure and they love them.  They were pretty easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats. Other than the issues in rear facing position this is a terrific seat.Bulky	Very bulkyBulky	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwardsBulky	giganticBulky	 it is a big car seatBulky	#N/ABulky	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Bulky	Very bulky. Bulky	Very bulky.Bulky	big car seatBulky	seat is gigantic.  Bulky	Very bulkyLight Weight	Relatively lightLight Weight	not very heavy.Light Weight	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Cons About Product	I will make a brief of my own experience of this camera to DSLR beginnersPros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Pros	Light weightPros	Easy to operatePros	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasPros	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iCons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingPros	Since I have switched from Nikon to Canon a lot of my review is based on comparison to Nikon.ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Pros	T2i is the Best Entry Level DSLRPros	Excellent Product came within 2 business days even though I did standard shipping. Fit my newborns head with the extra cushion that came with it.  Loved the colors as well. Works perfectly with the Snap N GEasy To Use	I am not a professional so please dont take my opinionEasy To Use	Ease of useEasy To Use	good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.Easy To Use	Easy to operateEasy To Use	 ease of usEasy To Use	Ease of useEasy To Use	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.Easy To Use	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Easy To Use	Easy to operate.Easy To Use	What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.Ease Of Installation	easly instaled it in the carEase Of Installation	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Ease Of Installation	 its a little difficult to installEase Of Installation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Ease Of Installation	It is so easy to use and install Ease Of Installation	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.Ease Of Installation	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars.Ease Of Installation	Easy to installEase Of Installation	VERY easy to install base in car.Ease Of Installation	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durableEase Of Installation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes.Ease Of Installation	nd easly instaled it in the car.Ease Of Installation	Easy to installEase Of Installation	Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do.Ease Of Installation	The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra. As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once.Ease Of Installation	They were pretty easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats.Ease Of Installation	The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well.Ease Of Installation	My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing.Ease Of Installation	difficult to installEase Of Installation	easy to use and installEase Of Installation	Easy to installEase Of Installation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutesEase Of Installation	easly instaledEase Of Installation	VERY easy to instalEase Of Installation	It is so easy to use and installEase Of Installation	  It is so easy to use and install Ease Of Installation	It is so easy to use and installEase Of Installation	easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.Ease Of Installation	 set this up in about 7 minutesEase Of Installation	VERY easy to install base in car.Ease Of Installation	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars. Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. Ease Of Installation	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Ease Of Installation	VERY easy to install base in car.Easy To Use And Install	It is so easy to use and installHighest Safety Rating	highest safety rating.Highest Safety Rating	highest safety ratinBig	bigDifficult To Install Rear Facing	difficult to install it rear facing.Megapixel	18MP StillsMegapixel	1080p HDLow Cost	its wallet friendlyUsage	Ive had it for about a year and I love itUsage	Easy to operateUsage	It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.Roominess	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Audio	No audio recording level adjustAudio	No audio recording level adjustAudio	o audio recording level adjustAudio	No audio recording level adjust0	Excellent Beginners DSLR0	I took some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very good.0	e money on lense0	I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing.Money	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much . Money	spending that much Performance	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoPerformance	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance	Built-in flash is not so greatPerformance	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoPerformance	18MP Stills  Performance	60fps HD RecordingPerformance	3.7 max burst ratePerformance	grain in the picturePerformance	choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photosPerformance	decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhyPerformance	T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delaysPerformance	he T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous modePerformance	This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C cameraPerformance	18.1MP sensorPerformance	video.....Its 1080p Performance	Digital 3x zoom in video mode.Performance	Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode so it acts like a point and shootPerformance	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoPerformance	live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow.Performance	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance	White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.Performance	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoPerformance	nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazingPerformance	18MP Stills Performance	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingPerformance	This is not a professional level SLRPerformance	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoPerformance	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoPerformance	 Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoPerformance	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Performance	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoPerformance	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.Performance	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance	delays are still therePerformance	#N/APerformance	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Performance	 Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOther Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Performance	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speedPerformance	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Performance	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance	1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Performance	Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Performance	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance	- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Performance	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.Performance	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iPerformance	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.  I conducted countless hours of research on Canons Nikons and even Sonys.  I was used to using point-and-shoots and small flip style video cameras to make my videos.  I looked into DSLRs and really wanted a canon.  YOU CANT GO WRONG WITH THIS CAMERA   It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.Performance	Cons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingPerformance	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraPerformance	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Performance	I used the same exact settings on both cameras large Jpeg P-mode Quick AF.  Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.Performance	 This camera is very tight on power consumption and has extreme accuracy when you set it for pinpoint focusing as I do for model and portrait photography work. The macro features are also on par with its more advanced and WAY higher priced big brothers to this camera. Now the 18.1MP sensor.....WOW  The image sizes of the CMOS sensor allow me great latitude in adjusting and tweaking my RAW images anytime I wish to be creative. If you are just starting out are bored with the out of date  point-n-shoot  want to upgrade your digital cams or you want to move from film to digital the T3i will not disappoint. Its an excellent camera for ANY level of photographer - beginner or experienced pro this camera really shines. Oh and the video.....Its 1080p HD nothing more needs to be said.Performance	ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Performance	This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.Performance	In hindsight The nikon D5100 has a better larger DX sensor vs canon APS sized sensor sensor. So less noise on the Nikon.Performance	there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photos.  You would expect Auto Modes to take easy great pictures in an entry level camera most people coming from point and shoot cameras.  If you want sharp pictures you have to use P S A or M modes with the D3100.  There you can control the ISO manually or use Auto ISO and choose a lower maximum ISO setting.  Apparently this is a discussed firmware issue but Nikon claimed they hadnt heard about it when I messaged themPerformance	I changed the camera to P S A Performance	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Performance	I took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality. I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer. The quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it.Performance	I own a Nikon D7000 that I traded up to after owning a D3100 that I used to take over 8000 photos with.  Ive also extensively used a Nikon D5100 so I have a pretty good sense of the capability of each of Nikons three consumer cameras.  The bottom line is that images from the D3100 are indistinguishable from the more expensive models.Performance	The best part was the 1080P video. I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good and my wife who is very difficult to please liked it so much that she said that next time we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100Performance	 Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for tripsPerformance	Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasPerformance	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Performance	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Lens	I am not a professional so please dont take my opinion as someone acting as an authority on this subject but as a first time user I am happy and hope my review will help any other first time digital camera fans out there.  Thanks.Lens	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficultLens	I am impressed with the lens that comes with the camera for the wide angle aspect of it due to a lot of places I shoot pictures there are a lot of people and requires me to get close to get the shot I want.Lens	good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lensesLens	18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens	Im a film student and was trying to decide between a t3i and Nikon 5100. everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera. the 600d has better continuous recording you have better manual capabilities.Lens	They all said the t2i or t3i its a great starter camera and will profuce amazing pictures as well. I will say that if I could buy it again I would but not with the kit lenses yes it seems like a good deal. But anyone that knows cameras and knows their way around with them will tell you they are crap lenses. Lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses.Lens	18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.Lens	- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses.Lens	everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your cameraLens	T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.Lens	3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.OverLens	If you are looking to do mainly surf but this camera BODY ONLY + a 18-135mm 55-200mm or 75-300mmLens	situation where you dont want to change lensesLens	18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens	The 18-135 lens is nice but a bit large. Maybe its large thats why the image quality is very good.Lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens	 this camera.  Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or more.  I purchased two Lens	18-135mm lensLens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens	For that use the camera and lens seem to work very well.  I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.Lens	40390Lens	item ships for FRELens	rder iLens	availablLens	ordersLens	d by Amazon.com.Lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses.Lens	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus whLens	After reading many reviews and comparisons I decided on this camera as it is the update to the Nikon D3000 that a friend of mine has.Lens	18-135mm lensLens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens	It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lensesLens	crap lensesLens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lenLens	But anyone that knows cameras and knows their way around with them will tell you they are crap lensesLens	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus functionLens	this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body cameraLens	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.Lens	I will say that if I could buy it again I would but not with the kit lensesLens	the camera and lens seem to work very wellLens	I am impressed with the lens that comes with the camera for the wide angle aspect of it due to a lot of places I shoot pictures there are a lot of people and requires me to get close to get the shot I want.Lens	good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lensesLens	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Lens	to take high quality photos of fairly small works of sculpture art using the Canon 60mm macro lens.  For that use the camera and lens seem to work very wellLens	Pair it with the lens of your choiceLens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.Lens	Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body cameraLens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.Lens	Ive taken some stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens combo.  Save yourself the headache of working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body.Lens	the kit lens that it comes with doesnt zoom far enough at all.Lens	 I will say that if I could buy it again I would but not with the kit lensesLens	No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available.Lens	18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasLens	dont want to change lensesLens	Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera.Lens	Since initially posting Ive purchased these lenses Canon EF 75-300mm f/4-5.6 III USM Telephoto Zoom Lens for Canon SLR Cameras and Canon EF 50mm f/1.8 II Camera Lens and really like what the camera can do. Im more and more certain in the 5 stars I put on this review. Really love this camera.Lens	f1.8 and the Tamron 70-300 lensesLens	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.Lens	No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Lens	 everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera.Lens	For the money I saved on the camera I was able to purchase a telephoto lens to go with it. Lens	 of purchase for ANY and ALL people entering or needing an advanced DSLR camera. I purchased the body only - I have several lenses from my previous Canons which are NOT currently IS lenses. Ive been shooting people places and other thiLens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens	periodLens	upgradeLens	upgradeLens	periodLens	upgradeLens	#N/ALens	#N/ALens	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.Lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.Lens	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for tripsLens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.Lens	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.Lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.Lens	18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lensesLens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lensesLens	 this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body cameraLens	his camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the monLens	No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens availableLens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lensesLens	 Canon 15-85mm f/3.5-5.6 EF-S Zoom Lens and than I will be in some serious businessLens	 they are crap lenses. I wound up purchasing a 50mm 1.4 off a local photographer off CLLens	No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Lens	go for a single lens which covers the entire rangeLens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.Lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgradeLens	 I will say that if I could buy it again I would but not with the kit lenses yes it seems like a good deal. But anyone that knows cameras and knows their way around with them will tell you they are crap lensesLens	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.Lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.Lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.Lens	 The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses.Lens	Im happy with my choice so far having purchased the camera first of all to take high quality photos of fairly small works of sculpture art using the Canon 60mm macro lens.Lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses.Lens	Focus in live picture mode is slow Lens	#N/ALens	#N/ALens	#N/ALens	#N/ALens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses.Lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for tripsLens	nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens	I am impressed with the lens that comes with the camera for the wide angle aspect of it due to a lot of places I shoot pictures there are a lot of people and requires me to get close to get the shot I want.Lens	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.Lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. Lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lensesLens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.Lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lensesLens	good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lensesLens	18-135mm lens is a nice upgradeLens	#N/ALens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens	It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lensesLens	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoLens	Focus in live picture mode is slowLens	 this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body cameraLens	I chose the t2i over t3i because I didnt feel I would need to use the movable lcd screenLens	especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possibleLens	his camera is very tight on power consumption and has extreme accuracy when you set it for pinpoint focusing as I do for model and portrait photography work.Lens	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens	Well I have since done some research and participated in forums and found out there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photosLens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens	#N/ALens	And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lensLens	Pair it with the lens of your choiceLens	 Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera.Lens	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOther Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens	 Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.Lens	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Lens	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the moneyLens	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPLens	The T2i is FASTLens	 I am impressed with the lens that comes with the camera for the wide angle aspect of it due to a lot of places I shoot pictures there are a lot of people and requires me to get close to get the shot I wantLens	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.Lens	#NAME?Lens	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. EsLens	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Lens	Other Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Lens	No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Lens	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iLens	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficultLens	18-135mm lensLens	 I am impressed with the lens that comes with the camera for the wide angle aspectLens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens	The IS works really well Lens	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function Lens	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Lens	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Lens	Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kitLens	I have used the f1.8 and the Tamron 70-300 lenses as well as the kit lens and love learning every day with it.Lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPLens	Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera.Lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in Lens	his kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light perforLens	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasLens	18-135mm lensLens	18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens	14.2MP Digital SLR Camera with 18-55mmLens	Canon 15-85mm f/3.5-5.6 EF-S Zoom LensLens	Save yourself the headache of working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body.  Pair it with the lens of your choice but I have no regrets with my 17-55mm purchase.Lens	 I will say that if I could buy it again I would but not with the kit lenses yes it seems like a good dealLens	18-135mm lensLens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Lens	There are very many accessories and lenses for this camera.  User-friendliness And Functionality	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.Low Light AF	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingAutofocus/zoom	No autofocus when zooming while taking videoTaking Wide Angle Pictures	Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Taking Live Pictures	Focus in live picture mode is slowAccessories	 They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Accessories	my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quicklyAccessories	Disappointed they offer HDMI input but dont provided the cable.Accessories	comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRsAccessories	There are very many accessories and lenses for this camera.  If you want to really get serious about photography or video making then get THIS camera.Accessories	And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lensAccessories	here are very many accessories and lenses for this camera.Accessories	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensAccessories	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Accessories	purchase the camera body separately so that I could pair it with the EF-S 17-55mm f/2.8 IS USM lensAccessories	consider getting a 50mm f1.8 or 1.4 lens and a fisheye/wideangle if you do skate videos/photosAccessories	I wound up purchasing a 50mm 1.4 off a local photographer off CL and I love that lensAccessories	pictures at full 18MP take a lot of memory. Better get some means of decent storage space 750-1TB hardrive will doAccessories	memory cards that they certified to use with this camera.  Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or more.  I purchased two Transcend 8GB Class 10 SDHC Card TS8GSDHC10 from Amazon Accessories	Battery life is not too greatAccessories	highly recommend you to also get a Nikon 35mm f/1.8G AF-S DX Lens for Nikon Digital SLR Cameras. It can be used to take short range portraits close-ups and indoors where the light is insufficientAccessories	son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quicklyAccessories	comes with head/neck support cushion.Accessories	  Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or more.  I purchased two Transcend 8GB Class 10 SDHC Card TS8GSDHC10 from Amazon and so far these have been amazing.Accessories	but it is annoying when he gets it off and starts throwing it aroundAccessories	Works perfectly with the Snap N Go stroller pieceAccessories	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Accessories	darn sun visorAccessories	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base.Accessories	Save yourself the headache of working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body.  Pair it with the lens of your choice but I have no regrets with my 17-55mm purchase.Accessories	 flip out LCD screenAccessories	There are very many accessories and lenses for this camera.  Durability And Size	Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day.  I have used the f1.8 and the Tamron 70-300 lenses as well as the kit lens and love learning every day with it.Slow Motion Video	60fps HD RecordingZooming Autofocus	No autofocus when zooming Additional Info	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.Autofocus/low Light	no low light auto focusComparison	Ive compared Canon EOS t2i with Nikon D3100 and finally I picked D3100. I am very happy about the decision.Comparison	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.Comparison	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keepComparison	Im glad to have this camera it has everything comparable to canon t2  1080p movie 14.2 mp 502g light weight. 3 inch screen Comparison	I had been taking pictures with my roommates Canon EOS t2i for months and then I decided to get my own entry-level DSLR. Ive compared Canon EOS t2i with Nikon D3100 and finally I picked D3100. I am very happy about the decision.Comparison	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraComparison	according to the experts there is really not much difference betrween t2i and the t3iComparison	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.Comparison	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am sure the Nikon D5100 is a spectacular camera and it sports a larder image sensor than the Canon. I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.Comparison	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.Comparison	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take.Comparison	The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Comparison	ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Comparison	In hindsight The nikon D5100 has a better larger DX sensor vs canon APS sized sensor sensor. So less noise on the Nikon.Comparison	Ive compared Canon EOS t2i with Nikon D3100 and finally I picked D3100.Comparison	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motorComparison	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Comparison	Since I have switched from Nikon to Canon a lot of my review is based on comparison to Nikon.MP	18MP Stills MP	Canon EOS Rebel T3i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-Inch Clear View Vari-Angle LCD and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS LensMP	Canon EOS Rebel T2i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-inch LCD and and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS LensKit Lens	I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer. The quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it. I also took a picture of a cherry tree that was about 30 yards away and then opened it up in Photoshop zoomed in and could see cherries that I could not even see with my eyes from the spot where I took the picture.Kit Lens	Save yourself the headache of working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body.Kit Lens	kit lensKit Lens	periodKit Lens	standardKit Lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lensesKit Lens	them will tell you they are crap lenseKit Lens	 if I could buy it again I would but not with the kit lensesKit Lens	Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensiveKit Lens	 I will say that if I could buy it again I would but not with the kit lenses yes it seems like a good deal. But anyone that knows cameras and knows their way around with them will tell you they are crap lenses.Video	ideo modes in SLR cameras are fairly useless unless you are good with manual focussing and use the tripod. BTW the lens IS does work in video mode.Video	 good low-light performance nice video.Video	Oh and the video.....Its 1080p HD nothing more needs to be said.Video	1Video	1080P videoVideo	The best part was the 1080PVideo	Digital 3x zoom in video mode.Video	080P videoVideo	The best part was the 1080P video.Video	you would have thought I used a real video camera and not one from a cameraVideo	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDINGVideo	60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Video	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoVideo	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Video	best part was the 1080P videoVideo	guess now i can finally retire my mini DV video cameraVideo	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurateVideo	600d has better continuous recordingVideo	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDINGVideo	nice videoVideo	ets talk Video I have taken alot for Football and I can not believe the quality and sound you would have thought I used a real video camera and nVideo	video manual focus on the CanonVideo	nice videoVideo	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDINGVideo	now lets talk Video I have taken alot for Football and I can not believe the quality and sound you would have thought I used a real video camera and not one from a camera it has surpassed what I have expected for a camera I am unbelievably happy with my purchase.Video	Takes good quality of videos.Video	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Video	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Video	Oh and the video.....Its 1080p HDVideo	#N/AVideo	It is GREAT for skate/surf video because of its 60fps mode.Video	60fps HD RecordingVideo	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Video	No autofocus when zooming while taking videoVideo	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDINGVideo	Takes good quality of videos.Video	The lens makes noises when youre recording videosVideo	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Video	No audio recording level adjustVideo	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDINGVideo	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor.Video	The best part was the 1080P videoVideo	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDINGVideo	60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Video	good low-light performance nice videoVideo	Takes good quality of videos.Video	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Video	 After testing out all the products I came to the decision that the only cameras I liked that felt good in my hand were the Canon T2i Nikon D5100 and the Can T3i. I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal. The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor.Video	lets talk Video I have taken alot for Football and I can not believe the quality and sound you would have thought I used a real video camera and not one from a camera it has surpassed what I have expected for a camera I am unbelievably happy with my purchase.Video	The best part was the 1080P videoManual Focus/video	video manual focusGood For Motion Pictures	t is GREAT for skate/surf video because of its 60fps mode.AF	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Smaller Sensor	In hindsight The nikon D5100 has a better larger DX sensor vs canon APS sized sensor sensor. So less noise on the Nikon.Customer Review 4/5	0Customer Review 4/5	0Low Light Shooting	shoots great in low lighting settings.Video Zoom	Digital 3x zoomContinuous Mode	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous modePoint And Shoot	the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for. Auto Lens Mode	Auto modeAuto Lens Mode	 took some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very good.Auto Lens Mode	 I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Auto Lens Mode	AutoAuto Lens Mode	 Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of picturesAuto Lens Mode	it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes.Auto Lens Mode	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the pictureAuto Lens Mode	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for. Auto Lens Mode	right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forAuto Lens Mode	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.Auto Lens Mode	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for. Auto Lens Mode	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.Auto Lens Mode	I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Auto Lens Mode	the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Auto Lens Mode	You would expect Auto Modes to take easy great pictures in an entry level camera most people coming from point and shoot cameras.  If you want sharp pictures you have to use P S A or M modes with the D3100.  Auto Lens Mode	Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Auto Lens Mode	the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Auto Lens Mode	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of picturesAuto Lens Mode	there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.Auto Lens Mode	 there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the settingAuto Lens Mode	 I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.Auto Lens Mode	  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.Auto Lens Mode	took some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very goodAuto Lens Mode	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for. Automode And Point	not in the auto point and shoot modes.Expensive Memory Card Required	Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or moreModes	P S A Modes	the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Modes	I changed the camera to P S A Modes	Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasAuto ISO	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Lcd	230000 pixelsLcd	No Flip-out LCDLcd	Low resolution of LCD screenLcd	 Low resolution of LCD screenLcd	No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus wNew User	For ease of use IQ form factor it wont weigh me down etc. I feel as if the D3100 was a great purchase. Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price Noises	noisesGuide Mode	For the money the D3100 cant be beat.  What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shotGuide Mode	What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.  I have learned more using that mode in one week than from the weeks Ive spent reading books and websites.Guide Mode	Also i loved the guide mode when in doubt use guide.Guide Mode	guide mode. Guide Mode	 guide mode Guide Mode	#N/AGuide Mode	What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.  I have learned more using that mode in one week than from the weeks Ive spent reading books and websites.Guide Mode	I researched for several weeks looking seriously at the Canon T2i and the Nikon D3100.  For the money the D3100 cant be beat.  What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.  I have learned more using that mode in one week than from the weeks Ive spent reading books and websites.  For the money I saved on the camera I was able to purchase a telephoto lens to go with it.  Worth every penny.  I look forward to many years of great photos.Guide Mode	 i loved the guide modeHolding Camera In Awkward Positions	very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.Holding Camera In Awkward Positions	articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason onlyHolding Camera In Awkward Positions	articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2iGood For Carrying Around	light and smallLow Res LCD	. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.Carrying Around For A Long Time	Battery lifeLens Price	No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lensFor Armature Photographers And Beginners	the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Taking Easy Pictures	just not in the auto point and shoot modesTaking Videos	I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good Straps	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.Straps	adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seatsStraps	No thread adjustable strapsStraps	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing positionStraps	the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as welStraps	hey were pretty easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats. Other than the issues in rear facing position this is a terrific seat.Straps	No thread adjustable strapsStraps	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.Straps	adjusting the strapsStraps	No thread adjustable strapsStraps	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Head Rest	head rest is removable which does not block my viewHead Rest	What I also love about it is the head rest is removableHead Rest	comes with head/neck support cushionHead Rest	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Head Rest	the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by handHead Rest	 head rest is removableHead Rest	headrest DOES NOT come off Head Rest	 head rest is removableHead Rest	 daughter falls asleep they hold her head up so its not bobbing all over the place.Head Rest	#N/AHead Rest	 head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Head Rest	 the head rest is removableHead Rest	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily  Head Rest	 I liked that the extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.Head Rest	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small.Head Rest	I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still smallHead Rest	What I also love about it is the head rest is removableHead Rest	headrest DOES NOT come offHead Rest	the head rest is removableRating	rated Rating	I purchased this seat because it was rated Rating	 highest safety rating.Rating	I purchased this seat because it was rated Ratings	rated Ratings	 rated Ratings	 I would recommend this product to anyone I knew who was in need of a good car seat.Ratings	 rated Ratings	I purchased this seat because it was rated Ratings	The First Years True Fit Recline Convertible Car SeatRatings	I purchased this seat because it was rated Ratings	Amazon.com Customer Reviews Safety 1st Complete Air 65 Protect Convertible Car Seat Silver LeafRatings	Graco Snugride Child Car SeatSnug Fit	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move aroundBulk	Very bulkyBulk	afety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Bulk	dont mind the bulk.Bulk	he seat is gigantic.Bulk	Very bulkyBulk	seat seems to breatheAdjusting While Facing Rear	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing positionSupport	head/neck support cushionSupport	head/neck support cushionSupport	comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustableInstallatin	hey were pretty easy to install Quality And Price	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Sun Visor	 the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Sun Visor	the biggest is this darn sun visorSun Visor	the biggest is this darn sun visor.Sun Visor	darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Sun Visor	ons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Sun Visor	sun visorSun Visor	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinkingSun Visor	cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Sun Visor	 When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Sun Visor	 the biggest is this darn sun visor.Sun Visor	the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Sun Visor	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Sun Visor	he biggest is this darn sun visorSun Visor	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Sun Visor	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Sun Visor	the biggest is this darn sun visorSun Visor	the biggest is this darn sun visorSun Visor	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Sun Visor	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Sun Visor	this darn sun visorSun Visor	cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Sun Visor	 the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyesSun Visor	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Sun Visor	cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Sun Visor	cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Sun Visor	sun visorSun Visor	 darn sun visorSun Visor	When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Sun Visor	on.cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to Comfortable And Safe	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levelsExtra Base	correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level.Weight Limit	higher weight limitWeight Limit	weight limit Weight Limit	  The seat holds a child up to 65lbsWeight Limit	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Weight Limit	I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Weight Limit	I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limitWeight Limit	higher weight limitWeight Limit	higher weight limit Weight Limit	it has a higher weight limit as wellWeight Limit	higher weight limit as well.Weight Limit	higher weight limit as well. Padding	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Padding	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding. Padding	very nice fabric thats soft to the touchPadding	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Padding	comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Padding	Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.  Ive felt a lot of other car seats out there that feel like theyd be pretty hard to sit on and uncomfortable.Padding	disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy. Padding	but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingPadding	So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.Padding	where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingPadding	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.Padding	#N/APadding	ely NO padding.  Padding	there is absolutely NO paddingPadding	 Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding Padding	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingPadding	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still Padding	thats soft to the touch Padding	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.Padding	where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats itPadding	excellent padding and very nice soft fabricPadding	NO paddingPadding	the seat seams padded wellPadding	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Padding	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -Padding	 If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Padding	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. IPadding	 Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats iPadding	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingPadding	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingPadding	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Visor	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out.Visor	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun outVisor	darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Visor	cons the biggest is this darn sun visorVisor	the biggest is this darn sun visorHigh Weight Limit	 higher weight limit as well.Rear Facing Fit	If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction boWashability	he part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.Size In Smaller Cars	 but it could be in some of the smaller cars out thereSafe And Comfortable	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.  Some seats seemed too bulky and I know my daughter would be a sweaty mess in those styles.  This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped in.Adjust In Rear Facing	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.Adjust In Rear Facing	adjusting the strapsSmaller Size 	 17in. wideRecline	you can recline it at 3 different levelRecline	djustable you can reclineSeat Padding	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Seat Padding	where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingSeat Padding	where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingSeat Padding	the seat seams padded wellSeat Padding	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Spacious	has so much roomNot Blocking The View	the head rest is removableAffordability	wallet friendlyAffordability	wallet friendlyAffordability	the price is very reasonable.Comfortable Texture	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyAdjustable Position	the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levelsQuick And Easy Installation	VERY easy to install base in carHolding A Baby	head/neck support cushionSun Screening	When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyesGetting The Base In A Level Position	you cannot tell if the car seat is level. Not Sure About The Weight Limit	the product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seatConvenient For Holding Cups	cup holder Cleaning The Seat	The material is easy to take off and machine washSuitable For Babies Of A Wide Age Range	This will even work for newbornsMemory Card	Saving in this format is 20MB a picture and this card has no trouble keeping up.Higher Cost	Excellent camera though a bit expensive - worth every pennyImproved Default Lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Upgrades Lens If Beginner DSLR	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensOverall Use And Picture/video Capability	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoOverall Use And Picture/video Capability	Ive taken some stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens comboOverall Use And Picture/video Capability	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forOverall Use And Picture/video Capability	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurateOverall Use And Picture/video Capability	230k dots screen its very bright and clear anyways compare to 900+ dotOverall Use And Picture/video Capability	adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous modeOverall Use And Picture/video Capability	GRID functions. These work only in LIVE VIEW MODE as Ive found so farOverall Use And Picture/video Capability	430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelesslyOverall Use And Picture/video Capability	 stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens comboCost	its wallet friendlyCost	great deal for the priceCost	PriceCost	I could not see myself spending that much Cost	0Cost	 its wallet friendlyCost	those of us who cant afford a Britax.Cost	wallet friendlyCost	price is very reasonable.Cost	Cons- PriceCost	T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100Cost	for 150 bucks less I do not need a rotating screen and other minute extended featuresCost	out of stock at Amazon and also with 10Cost	at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backupCost	images from the D3100 are indistinguishable from the more expensive modelsCost	money I saved on the camera I was able to purchase a telephoto lensCost	ot it for 699  including the VR 55-200mm + camera bag with DVD .  i also used the transcend 32 gb class 10 from amazon for 50 work without any problems . also bought battery at amazon for 27  EN EL 14   way way  amazing purchase. i have probably saved  200-300Cost	And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lensCost	 its wallet friendlyCost	The only mistake i did was i bought 2 different lens18-55 Cost	its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Cost	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonableCost	8GB card are 50Cost	699  including the VR 55-200mm + camera bag with DVDCost	 its wallet friendlyCost	Overall a very nice car seat for the priceCost	 PriceCost	PriceCost	debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100Cost	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraCost	prices were just too close to pass it upCost	2011Cost	Bonus- its wallet friendlyCost	It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great productCost	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.Cost	#N/ACost	Overall were really happy with this car seat.  It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.Cost	If your looking for a great Camera look no further you have found it  If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100Cost	a bit expensiveCost	PriceCost	Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kitCost	And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.Cost	  Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Flash Performance	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Auto Focus For Video	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Automatic Built In Flash 	Built-in flash is not so greaSlow Focus	Focus in live picture mode is slowNeeds Uv Filter	Make sure to get UV filter Angle Settings Can Create Shade	wide angle setting lens creates a shadeUser Interface	user-friendly controlsUser Interface	  It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.  It is very user Friendly and Fun to use.Awesome Camera	5.0 out of 5 stars Needed Accessories	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare batteryNeeded Accessories	Better get some means of decent storage space 750-1TB hardriveNeeded Accessories	you have to use P S A or M modes with the D3100Needed Accessories	No wireless remoteExcellent Still Photos Compared To Competitors	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPExtra Features	T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is differentExtra Features	3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingExtra Features	head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Extra Features	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Extra Features	you can recline it at 3 different levels.Extra Features	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun outExtra Features	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Extra Features	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily Extra Features	Cons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingExtra Features	Cons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingExtra Features	I chose the t2i over t3i because I didnt feel I would need to use the movable lcd screen and couldnt justify spending that much money on it. If you are condsidering the t3i go ahead and get the 60d. If youd like to see the work I have done with my t2i and 50mm.Extra Features	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.Audio Recording Level Adjust	No audio recording level adjustHigh Definition	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Frequent Delays	frequent and unpredictable delaysAttribute- Saving In 2 Forms Till Used To Camera	I have the camera saving in both RAW and JPEG until I can get familiar enough to switch completely to RAWRight Hand Grip	 very adequate right hand grip Neck Strap	good quality neck strapBeginner DSLR	great starter cameraAttribute- Pixel And Grain Makeup	rom the amount of grain in the pictureAttribute- Pixel And Grain Makeup	Low resolution of LCD screenAttribute- Pixel And Grain Makeup	White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ishFor Any Photographer	ANY level of photographer Design And Overall Weight	Light weight great body designHdmi Input But No Cable Included	offer HDMI inputAttribute- Quick Auto Focus	Very fast auto focus on shootingAttribute- Quick Auto Focus	T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed toWarranty Service	Canon service is apparently better than nikon.Warranty Service	pathetic nikon warranty service.Warranty Service	Canon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.Autofocus SLOW	Auto focus in  live view  mode Loud Autofocus Motors	 loud autofocus motorsLoud Autofocus Motors	 loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set minAttribute- Ergonomic Design	ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to useWorthwhile Price 	Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kitFast Auto Focus	Very fast auto focusNoisey Lens	lens makes noisesFits Snug	5.0 out of 5 stars Head Neck Support	5.0 out of 5 stars Soft Comfy	5.0 out of 5 stars Holds Up To 65 Lbs	5.0 out of 5 stars Intuitive Controls	very intuitive and pleasant to use.Intuitive Controls	Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode so it acts like a point and shoot.Intuitive Controls	For ease of useIntuitive Controls	What sold me was the guide mode.Auto-focus	3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.Auto-focus	D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photos.  You would expect Auto Modes to take easy great pictures in an entry level camera most people coming from point and shoot cameras.Auto-focus	 I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for. Auto-focus	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Auto-focus	Well I have since done some research and participated in forums and found out there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.Auto-focus	No autofocus when zooming while taking videoAuto-focus	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasManual Focus	Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes.Manual Focus	 This camera is very tight on power consumption and has extreme accuracy when you set it for pinpoint focusing as I do for model and portrait photography work. The macro features are also on par with its more advanced and WAY higher priced big brothers to this cameraManual Focus	 the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor.Attribute- Design	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inAttribute- Design	seat seams padded well and comfortable for my sonAttribute- Design	put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding#N/A	difficult to install in carOverall Design Of Product	seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy#N/A	size is pretty big#N/A	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position#N/A	17in. wide infant car seat will do#N/A	he biggest is this darn sun visor#N/A	he middle section is made of mesh#N/A	Yes it is a big car seat#N/A	It is a big seat especially rear facingSafety Rating	I chose it because it has the highest safety rating.Safety Rating	rated Safety Rating	highest safety ratingSafety Rating	it has the highest safety rating.Lots Of Room	 so much roomAttribute- Easy Child Placement/removal	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durableA Little Difficult To Install	little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickFabric Wears Easily	seat coverCompany Sent Woman New Cover Free	sent me a new cover Dimension- Weight Capability	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbsFits Well In Cars	it has fit really well in all cars.Attribute- Quick Installation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutesPadded Well	 padded wellQuality- Difficult To Clean	but I do NOT love cleaning itMaterial Easy To Clean	Material is easy to cleanMaterial Easy To Clean	material is easy to take off and machine washSeat Material	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Seat Material	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin.Seat Material	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Seat Material	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Seat Material	This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well.Seat Material	but this is the first one to have a serious lack of adequate padding.Seat Material	So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.  Im having quite an interesting time getting the nasty puke smell out of it.Warranty	My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty serviceWarranty	Canon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.Warranty	sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised.Warranty	 My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.Warranty	ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.Easy Set Up	 set this up Sleeping	sleepingSleeping	As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once.Sleeping	my daughter falls asleep they hold her head up so its not bobbing all over the placeSleeping	head kept his head from slumping to the sideHad To Face Forward Because Of Size	rear facing positionHead Rest Does Not Come Off	headrest DOES NOT come offWell Made	well madeWell Made	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Well Made	It is a well made and designed car seatHead Support Cushion	head/neck support cushionSoft Material	soft and fuzzyCrash Tested	side crash testedSun  Visor Is Mesh	n sun visor. No Padding In Seat	NO paddingBuilt-in Flash	Built-in flash is not so great.Built-in Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shadeBuilt-in Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shadeBuilt-in Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Built-in Flash	 Built-in flash is not so greatBuilt-in Flash	I upgraded from a Canon 20D to this specific model after several hours of navigating product reviews and I dont regret it the other contenders were the T3i and T3 close  range and after careful though on ISO performance MPs price and features I decided that this model offered me the best balance. I also kept in mind that I have a very specific use for it which is wedding photographyBuilt-in Flash	#N/ABuilt-in Flash	#N/ABuilt-in Flash	Built-in flash is not so greatBuilt-in Flash	Built-in flash is not so greatBuilt-in Flash	Built-in flashBuilt-in Flash	Built-in flash is not so greatBuilt-in Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Built-in Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Built-in Flash	Built-in flash is not so greatBuilt-in Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Built-in Flash	Built-in flash is not so greatBuilt-in Flash	#N/ABuilt-in Flash	#N/ABuilt-in Flash	Built-in flash is not so great.Built-in Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Built-in Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. #N/A	you dont want to spend more money on lenses. First DSLR	18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens#N/A	Built-in flash is not so greatPrevious Research Reassuring	I did a lot of research going into the purchaseTrue To Ad	This camera is exactly as it is advertisedLens Quality	ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body cameraLens Quality	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOther Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Lens Quality	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.  I conducted countless hours of research on Canons Nikons and even Sonys.  I was used to using point-and-shoots and small flip style video cameras to make my videos.  I looked into DSLRs and really wanted a canon.  YOU CANT GO WRONG WITH THIS CAMERA   It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.  It is very user Friendly and Fun to use.PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iCons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingEquipment	No autofocus when zooming#N/A	I did alot of research INot Needing To Change Lenses	dont want to change lensesNo Auto Focus	No autofocusNo Auto Focus	No autofocus when zooming while taking videoSaving money	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.  I conducted countless hours of research on Canons Nikons and even Sonys.  #N/A	Great value for the price"\Better\"" Quality Cameras And Price"""	not much difference betrween t2i and the t3i. for 150 bucks lessGrip	 very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.Grip	adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm gripGrip	 the only cameras I liked that felt good in my hand were the Canon T2i Nikon D5100 and the Can T3Delays In Taking Photos	delays CONS - Battery	Battery life is not too greatCONS - Wireless	 Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the qualityCONS - Wireless	 No wireless remoteCONS - Wireless	GRID functions. These work only in LIVE VIEW MODE Delivery Speed	Amazon prime helped to get the delivery in a very shortest period which was not imaginable.TCons- Screen 	Low resolution of LCD screenBeing User Friendly	user friendly whether you have read the manual or notAuto Shoot Quality	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Flip Around Screen For Different Positions	flip around screen#N/A	very sturdy camera.Unclear Shots	a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the settingUSE- Battery	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expectePixels	pixelsPixels	 It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Pixels	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Very Fast Auto Shooting	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Poor Battery Life	Battery life is not too great#N/A	Material is easy to clean Easy To Use When Reading Instructions	easy if you read the instructionsHeadrest Is Removable	head rest is removableHeadrest Is Removable	at I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small. If you see the video when shopping for a car #N/A	 VERY easy to install base in car.#N/A	wallet friendlyView Of Driver	head rest is removableLarger Car Seat	bigger than a lot of other car seats out#N/A	well constructed and pretty comfySeat Cover Quality	eat cover is made of a materialSeat Cover Quality	soft and fuzzy very comfortableSeat Cover Quality	middle section is made of meshCompany Customer Service	new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of chargeAdjusting Strap Length In Rear Position	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing positionBig Car Seat	 big car seatRear Facing	 I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Rear Facing	It is a big seat especially rear facing.Rear Facing	  It is a big seat especially rear facing. Rear Facing	It is a big seat especially rear facing.  We have a Sienna mini van and we had them both on the bench seat.  Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards.Rear Facing	If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneathRear Facing	  I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limitRear Facing	The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my carRear Facing	issues in rear facing positioEfficiency 	VERY easy to install base in carEfficiency 	easly instaled it in the car.Efficiency 	fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan SentraEfficiency 	 wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easilyNot Removable	Air  wings Reasonable Price	price is very reasonableHead/neck Support	head/neck support cushionNo Padding Where Baby Sits	NO paddingReclination	recline it at 3 different levelsBase	you cannot tell if the car seat is level.Base	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra baseBase	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Base	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level.Base	They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that baseBase	 It is side crash tested and the base is adjustableRoom	I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seatRoom	so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inRoom	ittle roomierRoom	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Megapixels	18MP Stills #N/A	If your looking for a great Camera look no further you have found it  Cost Analysis	worth every pennyCost Analysis	PriceControls	user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known forControls	Easy to operateControls	 intuitive and pleasant to use.Controls	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.Controls	exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality Controls	No audio recording level adjustControls	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quicklyControls	No wireless remoteControls	Ergonomically the D3100 is the easier to use compared to the D5100 that had to relinquish four buttons to make room for the swivel screen of the D5100Controls	ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.Controls	menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode. I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possibleControls	view finder is very clear and has all basic settings info on the bottom borderControls	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.Controls	 Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.Controls	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for. Controls	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usuallControls	  I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.Controls	solid and is easy to hold Controls	The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bitControls	#N/AControls	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.Controls	user-friendly controlsControls	to make a living.  This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.  I chControls	  I went so far as to query some industry professionals that use Canon DSLRs to make a living.  This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.Controls	user-friendly controlsChange Lens	kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lensesLive Picture Mode Slow	 Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras#N/A	 Relatively light Fast Continuous Mode	The T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode Overall	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Additionally with the side impact shaping its a very tight space to use the light blue head rests shown in the listing picture.  I havent tested it out yet but just from the appearance I can tell its not going to work.Ive purchased SnugRides in the past but this is the first one to have a serious lack of adequate padding.  Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEATOverall	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known forOverall	I have no regrets with my 17-55mm purchaseOverall	Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speedOverall	3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingOverall	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraOverall	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge dealOverall	I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motorOverall	The quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love itOverall	Compared to my Kodak point and shoot the pictures are great.  I love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavyOverall	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Overall	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOverall	t is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.  It is very user Friendly and Fun to use.Overall	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iOverall	Cons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingOverall	I decided that this model offered me the best balance.Overall	hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhyOverall	The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.Overall	This body is rock solid and worthy of purchase for ANY and ALL people entering or needing an advanced DSLR camera.Overall	Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menu. The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not.Overall	ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.Overall	ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Overall	As a first time Digital SLR buyer and user I love this camera and would highly recommend it to others.Overall	Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes.Overall	I feel as if the D3100 was a great purchase. Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup.Overall	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Overall	Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Overall	other Overall	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.Overall	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Overall	Big enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsOverall	Built in image stabilizerOverall	No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO.Overall	Excellent camera though a bit expensiveOverall	ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Overall	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Overall	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOverall	 It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyOverall	Canon T3i ROCKS Overall	.  This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.External	he 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly.No Instant Response	Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.Picture	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitorPicture	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoPicture	I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazingPicture	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forPicture	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picturePicture	problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the settingPicture	nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazingPicture	on dark venues the extra steps with the high ISO combined with large apertures on lenses provided the best combinationPicture	ight out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forPicture	I changed the camera to P S A Picture	problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photosPicture	great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modesPicture	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixelsPicture	better sensor  in the D5100 and D7000 at best has a bit more low light sensitivity but the overall images are not superiorPicture	images from the D3100 are indistinguishable from the more expensive modelsPicture	dont really mind the 230k dots screen its very bright and clear anyways compare to 900+ dotsArticulated LCD Screen	The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode. I especially like the articulated LCD screen 7D	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a cropNo Travel Type Charger	battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger wView Finder	 a view finder that movesView Finder	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100View Finder	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.View Finder	reference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100. #N/A	was amazed by the Canon T3i qualityRight-hand Grip	The T2i is FAST.Fits Easy On Tripod	I can just flip open my tripod lock and GO  #N/A	ts an excellent camera for ANY level of photographer -Ergonomics	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to useErgonomics	The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRs. Battery life seems to be very good - loErgonomics	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Ergonomics	Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all dayErgonomics	 Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.Ergonomics	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bitErgonomics	Ergonomically the D3100 is the easier to use compared to the D5100 that had to relinquish four buttons to make room for the swivel screen of the D5100.Ergonomics	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.Ergonomics	1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Ergonomics	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Ergonomics	The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.Firm Grip	ery adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm gripNo Cable For HDMI Input	isappointed they offer HDMI input but dont provided the cableVideo Manual Focus	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am sure the Nikon D5100 is a spectacular camera and it sports aVideo Manual Focus	 The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am sure the Nikon D5100 is a spectacular camera and it sports a larder image sensor than the Canon. I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.18-135 Lens Large	The 18-135 lens is nice but a bit largeDedicated Iso Button	favorite thing is the dedicated iso button making it easy to change quickly.Pictures	I get alot of great compliments on my pictures they are professional looking my family and friends say and these are just on the automatic settingVery Sturdy 	choice.  Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode so it acts like a point and shoot.  Compared to my Kodak point and shoot the pictures are great.  I love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy.  It looks like it should be but does not feel like it is.  It appears to be a very sturdy camera.Auto Mode Not Good Quality Pictures	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping foInstallation And Others	head rest is removableInstallation And Others	 easy to use and install Installation And Others	little difficult to installInstallation And Others	he size is pretty bigInstallation And Others	 exteremly easyInstallation And Others	fit well in both of ouInstallation And Others	Material is easy to clean and comfortable Installation And Others	easy to installInstallation And Others	No thread adjustable strapsInstallation And Others	Very bulkyInstallation And Others	VERY easy to install baseInstallation And Others	light weight and fits well Installation And Others	big car seatInstallation And Others	set this up in about 7 minutesInstallation And Others	 easly instaled Installation And Others	cleaning it.Installation And Others	gigantic.Poor Quality Material	material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyWell Padded	seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.Baby Can See Out Windows	look out of the windows at the world around herOne Day Delivery	delivered one dayInfant Acceptance	He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.Comfortability	 very comfortable and appears to be very safeComfortability	seemed very comfortableComfortability	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secureComfortability	protects my little girl and it provides comfert for herComfortability	where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingComfortability	very nice fabric thats soft to the touchComfortability	excellent padding and very nice soft fabricComfortability	material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyComfortability	The seat was comfortable lookingComfortability	comfortable on my babys skinComfortability	Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my sonConvenience	Other than the issues in rear facing position this is a terrific seatConvenience	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out thereConvenience	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsConvenience	head rest is removableConvenience	I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenientConvenience	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Convenience	 head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Convenience	He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all hereConvenience	Normally he literally fights and struggles when it is time to get into the the car but not this time.Convenience	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.Suggestions	#NAME?Variability	I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing.Responsiveness	Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.Responsiveness	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhyResponsiveness	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Functionality	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.Functionality	My only issue with the T3i concerns the GRID functions. These work only in LIVE VIEW MODE as Ive found so far. As soon as you move up to manual for full control you lose the grid I use the 3x3 which helps me set my composition. Yes I can use my eye to place an imaginary grid in the viewfinder but WHY when one is readily available.Functionality	head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Functionality	I have used the f1.8 and the Tamron 70-300 lenses as well as the kit lens and love learning every day with it.Functionality	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.Shutter	Minimal shutter lagShutter	T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delaysBody	Pair it with the lens of your choiceBody	 body is rock solid and worthy Body	Relatively lightBody	Somewhat Compact sizeBody	Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.Body	 Light weight great body design.Body	basically a 7D in a crop bodyBody	#N/ABody	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Body	  The view finder is very clear and has all basic settings info on the bottom border.  The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRs. Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger with a swing-out plug.  This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.Body	This body is rock solid and worthy of purchase for ANY and ALL people entering or needing an advanced DSLR camera.Body	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Model Name	model #N/A	conducted countless hours of research on Canons Nikons and even Sonys.Expertise	great for intermediate shooters Expertise	For a begginer in the professional photography area I definetly see an ocean of difference between the t2i and point and shoot camerasExpertise	upgraded from a Canon 20D Expertise	update to the Nikon D3000 that a friend of mine has.Expertise	loved the guide mode when in doubt use guideExpertise	compared Canon EOS t2i with Nikon D3100 and finally I picked D3100Expertise	this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.Expertise	looking seriously at the Canon T2i and the Nikon D3100.  For the money the D3100 cant be beat.  What sold me was the guide modeFeatuures	 third childSize Of Car Seat	e got this car seat after being very happy with my sons First Years Via car seat.  He was too big already for the extra padding but we had him back facing in this seat for about six months and now have him forward facing.  Hes liked both ways.  I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars.  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfySize Of Car Seat	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Overall Review	Overall we feel both our children are safe and would recommend this for long term use to friends and family members. We are contemplating buying two more so we have matching seats in both vehicles. They are worth every penny.Overall Review	Love this car seat Overall Review	Great car seatOverall Review	I absolutely love this car seat.Overall Review	I highly recommend this it item.Overall Review	For ease of use IQ form factor Overall Review	 Its an excellent camera for ANY level of photographer - beginner or experienced proMesh Does Not Block Sun	cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directlyPadding Protection	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco toInstall Time	I love this chair. from when I opened the box and easly instaled it in the car. it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it. Im just thinking how happy she will be when she gets turned around in a few months. This will even work for newborns. if I had known that I would have gotten this a long time ago.Adjustable	head rest is removableAdjustable	back facing in this seat for about six months and now have him forward facing.  Hes liked both waysAdjustable	No thread adjustable strapsAdjustable	Cant adjust strap lengthAdjustable	base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levelsAdjustable	next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra baseAdjustable	higher weight limitAdjustable	we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2Adjustable	If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath Adjustable	This will even work for newbornsAdjustable	t is so high in fact that my 3 1/2 year old would still be able to be rear facing in this seatAdjustable	height is adjustable Adjustable	rticulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possibleAdjustable	.  They were pretty easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats.Adjustable	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Size For Vehicle	purchased an extra one to have in his 06Nissan Frontier.Size For Vehicle	Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra Size For Vehicle	pretty bigSize For Vehicle	17in. wide infant car seat will do.  I believe this is the only one that fits our needSize For Vehicle	fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti.Size For Vehicle	could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drivesSize For Vehicle	They would have rested on the middle seatsSize For Vehicle	Other than the issues in rear facing position this is a terrific seat.Size For Vehicle	The seat is gigantic.Size For Vehicle	has fit really well in all carsSize For Vehicle	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car okSize For Vehicle	 little tricky to get it in. Tight fitSize For Vehicle	It is a big seat especially rear facing.Size For Vehicle	This seat would onlt fit in the 2nd row in the middle seating position so that it came up almost through the 2 front seats.Size For Vehicle	figure that a 17in. wide infant car seat will doSize For Vehicle	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.Size For Vehicle	 Although the seat is bigSize For Vehicle	The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car. Size For Vehicle	is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Tight fit Delivery	delivered super fast Delivery	came within 2 business days even though I did standard shippingDelivery	car seat was delivered one day after I ordered it online.Delivery	The car seat was delivered one day after I ordered it online.Delivery	Both were delivered super fast and in perfect conditionDelivery	came within 2 business days even though I did standard shippingDelivery	Excellent Product came within 2 business days even though I did standard shipping. Fit my newborns head with the extra cushion that came with it.  Loved the colors as well. Works perfectly with the Snap N Go stroller piece.Delivery	 delivered super fastDelivery	delivered one dayDelivery	came within 2 business days even though I did standard shipping.Delivery	The car seat was delivered one day after I ordered it online.Size For Ve	Very bulky#N/A	Seriously disappointed with this carseatSize For V	would onlt fit in the 2nd row in the middle seating position so that it came up almost through the 2 front seatsConfort	seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature Confort	provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves itFeatures	The articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i.Features	looking seriously at the Canon T2i and the Nikon D3100.  For the money the D3100 cant be beat.  What sold me was the guide mode.Features	loved the guide modeFeatures	At a glance the camera has a good feel to it and overall has the same features as the T2i. The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screenFeatures	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.Features	No audio recording level adjustFeatures	the quality and sound you would have thought I used a real video camera and not one from a cameraFeatures	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.Features	 It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levelsFeatures	It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushionFeatures	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick. One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers Features	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Features	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Features	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still smallFeatures	head rest is removableFeatures	 Picture quality on this t2i is stunning so many features that it will take me months to figure out how to really get the most out of this camera.Features	I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.Features	The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRs. Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.Features	Disappointed they offer HDMI input but dont provided the cable.Features	right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  Features	the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Features	Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.Features	  I also dont like some of the colors but that is personal preference.Features	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin.Features	No thread adjustable strapsFeatures	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingFeatures	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Features	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Features	It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. Features	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Features	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Features	trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level.Features	 has a higher weight limit as well. Features	This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touchFeatures	the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well. Features	Loved the colors as well.Features	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Features	essentially sitting on the hard plasticFeatures	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Features	Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do.Features	head rest is removableFeatures	issues in rear facing positionFeatures	I do NOT love cleaning it.Features	 holds a child up to 65lbs Features	 visor and made the new base aFeatures	so much roomFeatures	It is so easy to use and install Features	 its a little difficult to install Features	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Features	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.Features	  Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Features	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out thereFeatures	my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quicklyFeatures	nstall was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our carsFeatures	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow Features	easy to installFeatures	big enough rear facing all the way until two years old which is what the apa recommends.Features	Big enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsFeatures	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Features	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Features	comes with head/neck support cushion.Features	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Features	It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels.Features	VERY easy to install base in car.Features	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Features	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti.Features	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Features	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Features	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out ofFeatures	is nice and heavy very durableFeatures	t has a higher weight limit as wellFeatures	has very nice fabricFeatures	the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well.Features	extra cushionFeatures	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Features	0Features	Ive purchased SnugRides in the past but this is the first one to have a serious lack of adequate padding.  Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEATFeatures	Currently the product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat.  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Features	and it fits just fine. Features	 it is a big car seatFeatures	safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Features	you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath Features	easly instaled it in the carFeatures	it provides comfert for herFeatures	Easy to install Features	Tight fitFeatures	my little ones head did not hang over once.Features	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards. They would have rested on the middle seats.  Other than that it is an awesome seat.Features	Some of the reviews complain that the Air  wings  cause problems for the kid seeing out but their height is adjustable AND I really like that when my daughter falls asleep they hold her head up so its not bobbing all over the place.Features	do not clean easily Features	The seat is giganticFeatures	easy to installFeatures	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraFeatures	. No wireless remoteFeatures	What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shotsFeatures	lk Video I have taken alot for Football and I can not believe the quality and sound you would have thought I used a real video camera and not one from a camera it has surpassed what I have expected for a camera I am unbelievably happy with my purchase. Amazon thank you for the quick delivery yet again Features	The pictures at full 18MP take a lot of memory. Better get some means of decent storage space 750-1TB hardrive will doFeatures	overall has the same features as the T2iFeatures	It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levelsFeatures	  The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car. I currently live in Japan where my hubby is currently stationed with the USMC.  We drive a large van similar to the old Chevy Astro van.  This seat would onlt fit in the 2nd row in the middle seating position so that it came up almost through the 2 front seats.  I doubt this seat would fit into any other position in any car.Features	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Features	After searching and searching for a DSLR camera I had almost convinced myself of the T2i. I resisted and ended up waiting to purchase the T3i which was the best decision I made. At a glance the camera has a good feel to it and overall has the same features as the T2i.Features	direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keepFeatures	between a t3i and Nikon 5100. everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera. the 600d has better continuous recording you have better manual capabilities. after a lot research i decided to go with the canon i went with a t3i and not a t2i for the flip around screen. Features	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Features	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.Features	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Features	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Features	my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quicklyFeatures	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Features	higher weight limit as well.Features	buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as wellFeatures	a very tight space to use the light blue head restsFeatures	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFeatures	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal.Features	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am sure the Nikon D5100 is a spectacular camera and it sports a larder image sensor than the Canon. I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.Features	 This camera is very tight on power consumption and has extreme accuracy when you set it for pinpoint focusing as I do for model and portrait photography work. The macro features are also on par with its more advanced and WAY higher priced big brothers to this camera. Now the 18.1MP sensor.....WOW  The image sizes of the CMOS sensor allow me great latitude in adjusting and tweaking my RAW images anytime I wish to be creative. If you are just starting out are bored with the out of date  point-n-shoot  want to upgrade your digital cams or you want to move from film to digital the T3i will not disappoint. Its an excellent camera for ANY level of photographer - beginner or experienced pro this camera really shines. Oh and the video.....Its 1080p HD nothing more needs to be said.Features	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take.Features	The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Features	The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.Features	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Features	What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.  I have learned more using that mode in one week than from the weeks Ive spent reading books and websites.Features	The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.Features	I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.Features	I went to Best buy and tested out the Canon T2i the Nikon D5100 the Canon 60D and the Nikon D7000. After testing out all the products I came to the decision that the only cameras I liked that felt good in my hand were the Canon T2i Nikon D5100 and the Can T3i. I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal. Features	The articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i. The prices were just too close to pass it up. Features	Since initially posting Ive purchased these lenses Canon EF 75-300mm f/4-5.6 III USM Telephoto Zoom Lens for Canon SLR Cameras and Canon EF 50mm f/1.8 II Camera Lens and really like what the camera can do. Im more and more certain in the 5 stars I put on this review. Really love this cameraFeatures	he 600d has better continuous recording you have better manual capabilities. after a lot research i decided to go with the canon i went with a t3i and not a t2i for the flip around screen. i shoot in awkward positions sometimes and it defiantly comes in handy.Features	It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levelsFeatures	Ill inform the public so they too can enjoy ALL of the features of this outstanding camera. The articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i. The prices were just too close to pass it up. Ill be adding more T3i and T2i cameras to my photo biz in the coming months as well as trying out the IS lenses. This camera is very tight on power consumption and has extreme accuracy when you set it for pinpoint focusing as I do for model and portrait photography work. The macro features are also on par with its more advanced and WAY higher priced big brothers to this camera. Now the 18.1MP sensor.....WOW  The image sizes of the CMOS sensor allow me great latitude in adjusting and tweaking my RAW images anytime I wish to be creative. If you are just starting out are bored with the out of date  point-n-shoot  want to upgrade your digital cams or you want to move from film to digital the T3i will not disappoint. Its an excellent camera for ANY level of photographer - beginner or experienced pro this camera really shines. Oh and the video.....Its 1080p HD nothing more needs to be said. Canon yoHivemind	79 of 81 people found the following review helpfulHivemind	0Hivemind	0Hivemind	246 of 269 people found the following review helpfulHivemind	95 of 97 people found the following review helpfulHivemind	0Hivemind	0Hivemind	3 of 3 people found the following review helpfulHivemind	0Hivemind	0Feature Comparison	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Feature Comparison	Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFeature Comparison	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iFeature Comparison	No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingFeature Comparison	 I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparisonFeature Comparison	a lot of my review is based on comparison to Nikon.Feature Comparison	Well I have since done some research and participated in forums and found out there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.Feature Comparison	Apparently this is a discussed firmware issue but Nikon claimed they hadnt heard about it when I messaged them...  Well go take a look at the forums out there it is an issue for those of us who expect quality shots in all modes. Feature Comparison	the guide modeFeature Comparison	1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Feature Comparison	1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.User Credibility	Especially if this is your first DSLRUser Credibility	alotUser Credibility	LOLUser Credibility	My friends son is Captain of his High School Football teamUser Credibility	in my opinionUser Credibility	if you do skate videos/photosUser Credibility	check me out brittneysheystudios.comUser Credibility	I am person that is making a transition from an old point and shoot to this DLSRUser Credibility	Craig Benham - Photographic Adventures Ltd User Credibility	Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. User Credibility	Being a beginner in photographyUser Credibility	 Amazon prime helped to get the delivery in a very shortest period which was not imaginable.User Credibility	since it was out of stock at Amazon and also with 10User Credibility	A Kids ReviewUser Credibility	I have a 2003 MaximaUser Credibility	my son LOVES it User Credibility	Hyundai SonataUser Credibility	  Both were delivered super fast and in perfect condition.User Credibility	Amazon Verified PurchaseUser Credibility	came within 2 business days even though I did standard shipping.User Credibility	  I havent tested it out yet User Credibility	The car seat was delivered one day after I ordered it online. Which was outstanding. I took it out of the box and my 2 year old became giddy with excitement. User Comparison	I was used to using point-and-shoots and small flip style video cameras to make my videos.User Comparison	Its my first digital SLR Ive had it for about a year and I love it.User Comparison	I had almost convinced myself of the T2i. I resisted and ended up waiting to purchase the T3i which was the best decision I made.User Comparison	verses his carrier car seatUser Comparison	I did a lot of research on safety price etc. before buying this one.User Comparison	I chose it because it has the highest safety rating.User Opinion	I have no regrets with my 17-55mm purchase.User Opinion	If you want to really get serious about photography or video making then get THIS camera.User Opinion	3.0 out of 5 stars User Opinion	I have only scratched the surface of my purchaseUser Opinion	He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.User Opinion	it was rated User Opinion	A few things I dont like but not manyUser Opinion	0User Opinion	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.User Opinion	 seemed very comfortable in it User Opinion	it took me a bit to figure out how to work itUser Opinion	its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.User Opinion	shoots great in low lighting settings. all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels natural. Beginner Experience	For a begginer in the professional photography area I definetly see an ocean of difference between the t2i and point and shoot cameras.Beginner Experience	Being a beginner in photographyi took much time to decide on models between T2iT3i and 60D. Atlast i bought T3i and i am very much satisfied with the productBeginner Experience	  It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLRLighting	shoots great in low lighting settingsLighting	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingLighting	 shoots great in low lighting settings#N/A	I had almost convinced myself of the T2i. I resisted and ended up waiting to purchase the T3i which was the best decision I made#N/A	I am a person to research and research again. . .with that being said when I wanted to get a DSLR camera I asked a good 10 friends of mine which camera out there was my best bang for my buck They all said the t2i or t3i its a great starter camera and will profuce amazing pictures as well.#N/A	Ive compared Canon EOS t2i with Nikon D3100 and finally I picked D3100.Child Comfort	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortableChild Comfort	My child is so comfortableChild Comfort	I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.Child Comfort	there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.Child Comfort	he biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Child Comfort	my son LOVES it Child Comfort	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Child Comfort	After extensive research and practically being settled on the Britax Advocate I feel like you get what you pay for I was told about this car seat and figured I would give it a try.  Worse case I would just use it in my husbands car and then order the Britax for my car.  No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it Child Comfort	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Child Comfort	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Child Comfort	its very comfortableChild Comfort	My child is so comfortableInstallation (Ease Of Use)	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily Stills	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPStills	18MP Stills#N/A	Cons If any Happiness With One Over Other	Decided to get t2i over t3i. . .and happy I didValue/Price	Great value for the priceAudience	or needing an advanced DSLR camera.Audience	you have better manual capabilitieAudience	 Being a beginner in photographyi took much time to decide on models between T2iT3i and 60D. Atlast i bought T3i and i am very much satisfied with the product. Audience	not a professional Audience	erfect for a beginneHDMI Capability	Disappointed they offer HDMI input but dont provided the cableAutomodes	Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto modeAutomodes	 I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flashUsability 	Ergonomically the D3100 is the easier to use compared to the D5100 that had to relinquish four buttons to make room for the swivel screen of the D5100. Usability 	For ease of use IQ form factor it wont weigh me down etc. I feel as if the D3100 was a great purchase. Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup.Usability 	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.  The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. Usability 	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bitUsability 	The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode.Usability Overall	though an avid photography enthusiast for many years theres not a lot for me to compare the D3100 to. However my own experience in the short week since I purchased the camera has been extremely gratifying. For ease of use IQ form factor it wont weigh me down etc. I feel as if the D3100 was a great purchase. Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup.Adjustability	base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levelsAdjustability	head rest is removable Customer Satisfaction	Average Customer ReviewCustomer Satisfaction	 customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-likeCustomer Satisfaction	As a first time Digital SLR buyer and user I love this camera and would highly recommend it to others.Customer Satisfaction	20 of 20 people found the following review helpfulCustomer Satisfaction	VERY PLEASED   Customer Satisfaction	Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers Customer Satisfaction	decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keepCustomer Satisfaction	This body is rock solid and worthy of purchase for ANY and ALL people entering or needing an advanced DSLR camera.Satisfaction	great purchase for our family.Satisfaction	he correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Satisfaction	Seriously disappointed with this carseat Instructions	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions. I have a 2003 Maxima which has a slight bump in the middleInstructions	he instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Instructions	VERY easy to install base in car.Instructions	 I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Instructions	instructions were a little hard for me to followInstructions	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Instructions	The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it rightInstructions	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow Adaptability 	  Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode so it acts like a point and shoot.Adaptability 	Works perfectly with the Snap N Go stroller piece.Adaptability 	 user-friendly controlsSum Of Negatives	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasSum Of Negatives	Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Camera Body	ave yourself the headache of working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body.  Pair it with the lens of your choiceT2 Vs T3	whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.T2 Vs T3	he t2i over t3i because I didnt feel I would need to use the movable lcd screen T2 Vs T3	2i is the one I will keep.  WhyT2 Vs T3	T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason onlyT2 Vs T3	same features as the T2i. The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screenDevelop Over Time	Starting off on full auto moving through the different pre-determined settings sports portrait landscape etc and the into the manual modes.  I figure Im another year or so with this and Ill be ready to upgrade to the 7D and pass this on to my daughter.Macro	macro features are also on par with its more advanced and WAY higher priced big brothers to this cameraVideo Zoom External Flash	Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.Too High ISO 	there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photosSum Advantages	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Guide	What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.  I have learned more using that mode in one week than from the weeks Ive spent reading books and websites.Live Picture	Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasPrice Value	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money. Battery Charge	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everydayBattery Charge	This camera is very tight on power consumption and has extreme accuracy when you set it for pinpoint focusing as I do for model and portrait photography work. The macro features are also on par with its more advanced and WAY higher priced big brothers to this camera. Model	I did alot of research I was going to buy a less expensive model but after all the research of this cameras features I just couldnt so I worked some more overtime so I could afford this camera.Model	Canon EOS Rebel T2i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-inch LCD and and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS LensModel	Canon EOS Rebel T3i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-Inch Clear View Vari-Angle LCD and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS LensModel	#N/AModel	#N/AModel	Nikon D3100 16.2MP CMOS Digital SLR Camera with 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 AF-S DX VR Nikkor Zoom LensT2i	It is very user Friendly and Fun to useT2i	Camera is just amazingT2i	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhyErgonomic Arrangement	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to useSLR	The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRT3i	The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not.T3i	Im a film student and was trying to decide between a t3i and Nikon 5100. everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera. the 600d has better continuous recording you have better manual capabilities. after a lot research i decided to go with the canonSubject	I am not a professional so please dont take my opinion as someone acting as an authority on this subjectD5100	Ergonomically the D3100 is the easier to use compared to the D5100 that had to relinquish four buttons to make room for the swivel screen of the D5100Recommendations	0Maintenance	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily Maintenance	Material is easy to cleanMaintenance	here is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.Maintenance	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come offMaintenance	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingComfort Safety	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Comfort Safety	its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.Install Use	  The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well.Ease Of Acess	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of Attachments	 the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Attachments	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily Target user type	  It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.Target user type	The T3i is out now so thats probably a better bet but I love the fact that I can slowly advance my knowledge of the SLR usage as I go.  Starting off on full auto moving through the different pre-determined settings sports portrait landscape etc and the into the manual modes.  I figure Im another year or so with this and Ill be ready to upgrade to the 7D and pass this on to my daughter.Target user type	This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.Target user type	 If you are just starting out are bored with the out of date  point-n-shoot  want to upgrade your digital cams or you want to move from film to digital the T3i will not disappointTarget user type	As a first time Digital SLR buyer and user I love this camera and would highly recommend it to others. External Flash	The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.External Flash	The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.External Flash	The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.#N/A	Ive compared Canon EOS t2i with Nikon D3100 and finally I picked D3100.Learning	 researched for several weeks looking seriously at the Canon T2i and the Nikon D3100.  For the money the D3100 cant be beat.  What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.Britax Car Seats	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much .Instal	its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstal	VERY easy to install base in carSmaller Cars	A few things I dont like but not many.  The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out thereCar Seat	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Infant Car Seat	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base.Security	t holds the girls very secure and they love theSeat	Now for the cons.  The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car.Clean	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   Clean	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Clean	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingClean	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skinClean	  My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.Clean	All that to say - I still love a lot of things about this carseat but I do NOT love cleaning it.Clean	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come offClean	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easilyClean	  So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.  Im having quite an interesting time getting the nasty puke smell out of it.Backward Facing	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards. They would have rested on the middle seats.  Other than that it is an awesome seatBackward Facing	My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing. Between my 3 kids Ive been through about 6 different convertible car seats in the past 8 years and this one was by far the most difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt.Space Occupied	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move aroundSpace Occupied	They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Space Occupied	 Yes it is a big car seatComfort - Material	It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Comfort - Material	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I Comfort - Material	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Comfort - Space	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.  Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my sonComfort - Space	I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat.Comfort - Space	she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Comfort - Padding	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingSize Of Images	Better get some means of decent storage space 750-1TB hardrive will doQuality Of Photos	Apparently this is a discussed firmware issue but Nikon claimed they hadnt heard about it when I messaged them...Uv Filter And Battery	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Repeat	Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all carsRepeat	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for. Info	 Ill be adding more T3i and T2i cameras to my photo biz in the coming monthsInfo	  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Memory And Format	  Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or more.  I purchased two Transcend 8GB Class 10 SDHC Card TS8GSDHC10 from Amazon and so far these have been amazing.  I have the camera saving in both RAW and JPEG until I can get familiar enough to switch completely to RAW.  Saving in this format is 20MB a picture and this card has no trouble keeping up.Beginner Friendly	Excellent Beginners DSLRBeginner Friendly	Its my first digital SLR Ive had it for about a year and I love it.Beginner Friendly	not a professional level SLRBeginner Friendly	want to move from film to digitalBeginner Friendly	The camera itself is very user friendlyBeginner Friendly	as a first time user I am happyBeginner Friendly	Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price Beginner Friendly	 I have had it for a few months now and I get alot of great compliments on my pictures they are professional looking my family and friends say and these are just on the automatic setting LOL wait until I read more and experimentBeginner Friendly	 For a begginer in the professional photography area I definetly see an ocean of difference between the t2i and point and shoot cameras. Picture quality on this t2i is stunning so many features that it will take me months to figure out how to really get the most out of this camera.Beginner Friendly	The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not. I am a person to read through and learn the various features the camera has to offer.Beginner Friendly	I wanted to start digital photography as a hobby so I decided to buy a nicer camera.  After reading many reviews and comparisons I decided on this camera as it is the update to the Nikon D3000 that a friend of mine has.  They love their camera so I figured this was a good choiceVideo Recording	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Video Recording	For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhyVideo Recording	#N/AVideo Recording	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDINGVideo Recording	 The best part was the 1080P videoVideo Recording	60fps HD RecordingBurst Rate	3.7 max burst rateBurst Rate	3.7 max burst rateBurst Rate	3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allCrop	7D in a crop bodyOverall Performance	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Overall Performance	I upgraded from nikon D50 to this. So of course the pictures are much much better.In hindsight The nikon D5100 has a better larger DX sensor vs canon APS sized sensor sensor. So less noise on the Nikon.Also I think that video modes in SLR cameras are fairly useless unless you are good with manual focussing and use the tripod. BTW the lens IS does work in video mode.Overall Performance	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iCons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingOverall Performance	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOverall Performance	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Overall Performance	If youd like to see the work I have done with my t2i and 50mm. . check me out brittneysheystudios.comOverall Performance	there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.Overall Performance	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iOverall Performance	I used the same exact settings on both cameras large Jpeg P-mode Quick AF.  Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.Overall Performance	  I love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy.  It looks like it should be but does not feel like it is.  It appears to be a very sturdy camera.Overall Performance	- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Overall Performance	1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Overall Performance	 Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Overall Performance	The bottom line is that images from the D3100 are indistinguishable from the more expensive models.  Ergonomically the D3100 is the easier to use compared to the D5100 that had to relinquish four buttons to make room for the swivel screen of the D5100.  Following is a link to my review of the D3100Aperture	8-135mm 55-200mm or 75-300mmWireless	The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelesslyWireless	o wireless remote.Wireless	NWireless	The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelesslyWireless	No wireless remoteWireless	No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.Response	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Settings	Same problem.  Well I have since done some research and participated in forums and found out there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.Settings	I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forSettings	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Settings	No audio recording level adjustSettings	he reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. Display	T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screenDisplay	No Flip-out LCDDisplay	 The articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i.Display	The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flashDisplay	Low resolution of LCD screen.Display	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.Opinion	I am not a professional so please dont take my opinion as someone acting as an authority on this subjectParticulars	 i would recommend this camera over any one on the market and shoots great in low lighting settings.User Freindly	It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.  It is very user Friendly and Fun to use.Software	Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes.Software	My only issue with the T3i concerns the GRID functions. These work only in LIVE VIEW MODE as Ive found so far. As soon as you move up to manual for full control you lose the grid I use the 3x3 which helps me set my composition.Software	.  Apparently this is a discussed firmware issueUser Comfort	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable and appears to be very safeUser Comfort	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secureUser Comfort	 it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves itUser Comfort	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.User Comfort	ery nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as wellUser Comfort	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyesUser Comfort	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyUser Comfort	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfyUser Comfort	No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.User Comfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Value For Money	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonableValue For Money	It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good dealValue For Money	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much Value For Money	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Adjust	but I do NOT love cleaning itAdjust	you can recline it at 3 different levelsAdjust	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing positionInstall-ability 	We drive a large van similar to the old Chevy Astro van.  This seat would onlt fit in the 2nd row in the middle seating position so that it came up almost through the 2 front seats.  I doubt this seat would fit into any other position in any carSeat Size	It is a big seat especially rear facingSeat Size	The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra. As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over onceSeat Size	 Im sure this is safe enough but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient. Even though my son isnt quiet 1 yet he was ready for a more toddler friendly seat.Seat Size	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.Seat Size	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge carSeat Size	seat is big Installability	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Installability	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Installability	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directlyInstallability	Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all carsInstallability	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickConvertability	 Im just thinking how happy she will be when she gets turned around in a few months.Brand	. Definitely worth doing business with companiesTaking Pictures In Auto Mode	pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camSame As Above	 noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Same As Above	video manual focus on the Canon and alsHow Light It Is	not very heavy.High Resolution	 Now the 18.1MP sensorHigh Resolution	 Now the 18.1MP sensorNoise	The nikon D5100 has a better larger DX sensor vs canon APS sized sensor sensor. So less noise on the Nikon.Noise	So less noise on the Nikon.Noise	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.Noise	The nikon D5100 has a better larger DX sensor vs canon APS sized sensor sensor. So less noise on the Nikon.Pic	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.Pic	#N/ADesign And Operation	. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.No Manual Focus	 video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am No Manual Focus	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasIS	it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i. IS	The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.IS	ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.GRID	My only issue with the T3i concerns the GRID functions.GRID	My only issue with the T3i concerns the GRID functions. These work only in LIVE VIEW MODE as Ive found so far. As soon as you move up to manual for full control you lose the grid I use the 3x3 which helps me set my composition. Yes I can use my eye to place an imaginary grid in the viewfinder but WHY when one is readily available.GRID	GRID functions. These work only in LIVE VIEW MODE as Ive found so far. As soon as you move up to manual for full control you lose the grid I use the 3x3 which helps me set my composition. Yes I can use my eye to place an imaginary grid in the viewfinder but WHY when one is readily available.GRID	My only issue with the T3i concerns the GRID functions. These work only in LIVE VIEW MODE as Ive found so far. As soon as you move up to manual for full control you lose the grid I use the 3x3 which helps me set my composition. Yes I can use my eye to place an imaginary grid in the viewfinder but WHY when one is readily availableGRID	My only issue with the T3i concerns the GRID functions. GRID	As soon as you move up to manual for full control you lose the grid I use the 3x3 which helps me set my composition.Can Focus Yourself	As soon as you move up to manual for full controlBattery Life Long	 Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger with a swing-out plug.  This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.Build Of The Camera Is Good	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing theVedio	No autofocus when zooming while taking videoFocus - Lighting 	2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Focus - Lighting 	he T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Focus - Lighting 	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Focus - Lighting 	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingFocus - Lighting 	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Sturdiness - Weight 	Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day.Lens/Range 	 purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Lens/Range 	everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera. the 600d has better continuous recording you have better manual capabilities. after a lot research i decided to go with the canon i went with a t3i and not a t2i for the flip around screen. i shoot in awkward positions sometimes and it defiantly comes in handy.Lens/Range 	 went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal. The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am sure the Nikon D5100 is a spectacular camera and it sports a larder image sensor than the Canon. I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.Lens/Range 	I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.Auto Picture	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.Auto Picture	I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode so it acts like a point and shoot.Extras	he biggest is this darn sun visoExtras	Disappointed they offer HDMI input but dont provided the cable.User-friendly	Its an excellent camera for ANY level of photographer - beginner or experienced proUser-friendly	user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known forUser-friendly	Relatively lightUser-friendly	Make sure to get UV filterUser-friendly	The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual modeUser-friendly	The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm gripUser-friendly	The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRsUser-friendly	Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortabilityUseability	What sold me was the guide mode.Screen Picture Quality	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixelFunction	The T2i is FASTFunction	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Facing Rear	 extremely difficult to install it rear facingKeeping Child Cool	This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped in"Size, Too Big"	  The seat is gigantic.Installation Easy	easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats. Other than the issues in rear facing position this is a terrific seat.Installation Easy	tall was exteremly easy and it fit well in botDelivery Time	delivered one day after I ordered it online. Which was outstandingComfort And Safety	Normally he literally fights and struggles when it is time to get into the the car but not this time. I love this chair  My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secureComfort And Safety	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Fits In Even Small Cars	Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do. Again my little girl likes being in the seat and able to look out of the windows at the world around herGood For Even Newborns And Up	This will even work for newborns. if I had known that I would have gotten this a long time ago.Kids Love It	 new saftey 1st car seat she loves itMisleading	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Removable Fabric	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Padding Not Good	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Sun Visor Made Of Mesh	he biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. ISafe And Adjustable	side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. I highly recommend this it itemGood Price	 price is very reasonableOverall Size (Fit In Car) 	The seat is giganticOverall Size (Fit In Car) 	Awesome but a little bigOverall Size (Fit In Car) 	Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do.Nice Material	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyManufacturing	nice fabric thats soft to the touchEasy To Clean 	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come offEasy To Clean 	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Easy To Clean 	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. Size Too Bulky	Very bulky. Instructions Too Complicated	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow remember now I am the grandma and over 50 so please keep it simple   I did end up having my son install it for me.  The chair is excellent quality.Price For Quality 	the price is very reasonablePrice For Quality 	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.Price For Quality 	wallet friendlyPrice For Quality 	I found this to be a great deal for the price.Child Comfortable	He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all hereGood Deal For The Price	I found this to be a great deal for the priceRear-facing	My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing.Rear-facing	The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car.Rear-facing	I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit.Rear-facing	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards.Rear-facing	If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Rear-facing	I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Rear-facing	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing positionRear-facing	seat was comfortable looking and big enough rear facing all the way until two years oldRear-facing	 If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Headrest Removable	head rest is removableIso	I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for. Sd Card Price	Nikon suggests certain memory cards that they certified to use with this camera.  Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or more.  I purchased two Transcend 8GB Class 10 SDHC Card TS8GSDHC10 from Amazon and so far these have been amazing.  I have the camera saving in both RAW and JPEG until I can get familiar enough to switch completely to RAW.  Saving in this format is 20MB a picture and this card has no trouble keeping up.Just An Upgrade	Im a film student and was trying to decide between a t3i and Nikon 5100. everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera. the 600d has better continuous recording you have better manual capabilities. after a lot research i decided to go with the canon i went with a t3i and not a t2i for the flip around screen. i shoot in awkward positions sometimes and it defiantly comes in handy. i would recommend this camera over any one on the market and shoots great in low lighting settings. all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels natural. my favorite thing is the dedicated iso button making it easy to change quickly.Additional Feature	I will make a brief of my own experience of this camera to DSLR beginnersPros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Additional Feature	articulating LCD screenAdditional Feature	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iCons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingAdditional Feature	T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.Built In Flash Sucks	Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasWorth The Price	Excellent camera though a bit expensive - worth every penny.Compactability	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.User Experience	guide modeUser Experience	Its an excellent camera for ANY level of photographer - beginner or experienced pro this camera really shines. Good Overall Few Cons	I bought this seat for my son who is now 8 months old.  I got it because I already have the Safety 1st Air Protect On Board 35 SE Infant Car Seat which I love.  My son is still in his infant car seat but not for much longer.  I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit.  It is so high in fact that my 3 1/2 year old would still be able to be rear facing in this seat.  Rear facing is the safest way for small children to travel when in a car.  After purchasing this seat we took it for a test drive literally with the baby in it.  He seemed very comfortable in it and I liked that the extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.  I love the no rethread harness and although it took me a bit to figure out how to work it it is still fairly simple and much preferrable over the rethread type.Now for the cons.  The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car. I currently live in Japan where my hubby is currently stationed with the USMC.  We drive a large van similar to the old Chevy Astro van.  This seat would onlt fit in the 2nd row in the middle seating position so that it came up almost through the 2 front seats.  I doubt this seat would fit into any other position in any car.  My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing. Between my 3 kids Ive been through about 6 different convertible car seats in the past 8 years and this one was by far the most difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt.  At one point or another Ive had to install all of my previous car seats rear facing with the vehicle belt.  The instructions say to lift the seat pad when threading the belt through which I did but then once the seat was installed I couldnt get the pad back down over the seat where it was against the seat back of the actual vehicle seat.  So I had to uninstall it and reinstall it with the pad in its proper place making it very difficult to do.All in all I would definitely recommend this seat to others.Sophistication	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screenSophistication	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraSophistication	Mic inputRecieved For Shower	We asked for this as a Baby Shower gift back in 2010 when my daughter was born. Started to use it in Feb of this year my daughter is on the small side so she just outgrew the infant seat and LOVE IT  Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.We ordered another one for this review for my MILs car since she cares for my daughter 2 days a week. Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do. Again my little girl likes being in the seat and able to look out of the windows at the world around her. I would recommend this product to anyone I knew who was in need of a good car seat.Easy Instilation	 love this chair. from when I opened the box and easly instaled it in the car. it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it. Im just thinking how happy she will be when she gets turned around in a few months. This will even work for newborns. if I had known that I would have gotten this a long time ago.A Bit Inconvenient Bulky	We are using this as a rear facing seat in our Chevy Malibu and it fits just fine. Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Im glad we had the Chicco Keyfit 30 when our guy was an infant. Im sure this is safe enough but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient. Even though my son isnt quiet 1 yet he was ready for a more toddler friendly seat. This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him. I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Overall Im very satisfied with my purchase.Contradiction	Currently the product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat.  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Good Shipping	Excellent Product came within 2 business days even though I did standard shipping. Fit my newborns head with the extra cushion that came with it.  Loved the colors as well. Works perfectly with the Snap N Go stroller piece.Cant Put Behind Drivers Seat	 have been using the graco snug ride 30 metropolis for 2 months now. So far I am only satisfied with this car seat.pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.  light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.I think I would purchase this car seat again if they changed the visor and made the new base available.Just As Pictured	 absolutely love this car seat. It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. I highly recommend this it item.Foits With 2 Other Seats	In anticipation of the arrival of our third child we bought this car seat to use in our sedan.  We didnt want to buy a new car or invest in all new car seats to make that happen.  We started shopping around and figure that a 17in. wide infant car seat will do.  I believe this is the only one that fits our need.  We are able to use our Britax Marathon a Graco booster and this infant car seat all in one row.  This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Purchasing In Future	I have a four year old and a two year old and they both love their true fit seats. Mommy loves them too. They are easy to install especially as compared to the graco one we bought first. The no rethread harness is awesome. The seat was comfortable looking and big enough rear facing all the way until two years old which is what the apa recommends.ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Overall we feel both our children are safe and would recommend this for long term use to friends and family members. We are contemplating buying two more so we have matching seats in both vehicles. They are worth every penny.Not Simple Instructions	I chose it because it has the highest safety rating. The instructions were a little hard for me to follow remember now I am the grandma and over 50 so please keep it simple   I did end up having my son install it for me.  The chair is excellent quality.Wallet Friendly	Worse case I would just use it in my husbands car and then order the Britax for my car.  No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.  I am going to order another one of these for my husbands car.  It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Experience	please their customersExperience	 is so easy to use and installFeedback	have friends who love itSpecifications	Currently the product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat.  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Specifications	Im glad to have this camera it has everything comparable to canon t2  1080p movie 14.2 mp 502g light weight. 3 inch screen .Specifications	Canon EOS Rebel T2i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-inch LCD and and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS LensPrice/availability	I got it for 699  including the VR 55-200mm + camera bag with DVD Feature Vs Price	 If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.Cleanliness	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCleanliness	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.  Thats not so bad since she did not puke on that part except that I was not aware that the headrest pad is attached to another pad that continues down the back behind the main pad   So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.  Im having quite an interesting time getting the nasty puke smell out of it.Cleanliness & Convenience	the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by handComfort & Safety	very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy dutyComfort/Safety	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Comfort/Safety	she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves itComfort/Safety	This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touchComfort/Safety	Ive purchased SnugRides in the past but this is the first one to have a serious lack of adequate padding.  Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEATComfort/Safety	he biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Comfort/Safety	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of chargeComfort/Safety	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Overall Usage	Very satisfied with this productOverall Usage	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Overall Im very satisfied with my purchase.Overall Usage	ros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.  light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.I think I would purchase this car seat again if they changed the visor and made the new base available.Overall Usage	A good car seat that fits our needsOverall Usage	This is a great car seat. I did a lot of research on safety price etc. before buying this one.Rankings	I purchased this seat because it was rated Need To Buy Extra Parts	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Performance (speed)	T2i is FASTPerformance (speed)	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performanceGood Camera/lens Combo	stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens comboFast Startup	Fast start up speedAudio Recording	No audio recording level adjustAudio Recording	No audio recording level adjustAudio Recording	No audio recording level adjustAudio Recording	No audio recording level adjustAudio Recording	No audio recording level adjustAudio Recording	No audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingComfortable Usage	Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.Comfortable Usage	felt good in my handHeavily Researched	I am a person to research and research againMenu System	menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to useMenu System	The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use.Voice Recording	No audio recording level adjustSame As Earlier Version	has a good feel to it and overall has the same features as the T2i.1080p Video Quality	The best part was the 1080P video.Shoot Modes	just not in the auto point and shoot modes.Shoot Modes	Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes.Good Video	The best part was the 1080P video.Low Res	 Low resolution of LCD screen.Components	pretty easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easyComponents	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Components	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Components	base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levelsComponents	comes with head/neck support cushionComponents	No thread adjustable strapsComponents	son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly.  It isnt hard to get back on and it is nice that it pops off so it can go on either side but it is annoying when he gets it off and starts throwing it around.Components	head rest is removableComponents	14.2 mp 502g light weight. 3 inch screenComponents	guide modeComponents	No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.Components	guide modeComponents	The pictures at full 18MP take a lot of memoryComponents	No Flip-out LCDComponents	7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.Components	rticulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2iImage	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.Image	White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.Image	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensLCD Screen Articulated	No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issueLCD Screen Articulated	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menuLCD Screen Articulated	The articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i.LCD Screen Articulated	I went to Best buy and tested out the Canon T2i the Nikon D5100 the Canon 60D and the Nikon D7000. After testing out all the products I came to the decision that the only cameras I liked that felt good in my hand were the Canon T2i Nikon D5100 and the Can T3i. I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal.Overall Value	This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.Overall Value	the other contenders were the T3i and T3 close  range and after careful though on ISO performance MPs price and features I decided that this model offered me the best balance.Overall Value	I was used to using point-and-shoots and small flip style video cameras to make my videos.  I looked into DSLRs and really wanted a canon.  YOU CANT GO WRONG WITH THIS CAMERA   It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.Upgrades	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lensesAuto Mode - Quality	there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photos.Auto Mode - Quality	I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Auto Mode - Focus	 Very fast auto focus on shooting.Auto Mode - Focus	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Auto Mode - Focus	 No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Easy Install	rom when I opened the box and easly instaled it in the caEasy Install	VERY easy to install base in car. Easy Install	but it was easy if you read the instructions.Cheap Material	t cover is made of a material where#N/A	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Large Size	The size is pretty bigSeat Cover Material	seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchySeat Cover Material	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchySeat Cover Material	So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.Seat Cover Material	difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick. One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it Seat Cover Material	 One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy. Seat Cover Material	  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  Seat Cover Material	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars. Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. Seat Cover Material	While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh.Cupholder	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the boxCupholder	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box.Cupholder	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Large Seat	Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra.Delivery From Seller	elivered one day after I ordered it onlineEase To Clean	Hard to clean Ease Of Cleaning	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come offEase Of Cleaning	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin.Ease Of Cleaning	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easilyEase Of Cleaning	 Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin.Ease Of Cleaning	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Ease Of Cleaning	he  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easilyEase Of Cleaning	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come offEase Of Cleaning	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingComfort - Breathability	This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped inComfort - Wings	He seemed very comfortable in it and I liked that the extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.Harness	I love the no rethread harness and although it took me a bit to figure out how to work it it is still fairly simple and much preferrable over the rethread typeHarness	adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seatsHarness	The no rethread harness is awesomeHeight/Weight Limits	  I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit.  It is so high in fact that my 3 1/2 year old would still be able to be rear facing in this seat.Comfort - Heat	May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.Cust Service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge No Autofocus	Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFoccus in Live Mode Slow	Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasAuto Focus Slow	 video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am Lense	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Lense	Canon EOS Rebel T2i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-inch LCD and and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS LensArticulating	The articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i#N/A	Compared to my Kodak point and shoot the pictures are great.#N/A	I have mainly used point and shoot cameras in the past and have always had fun taking pictures.#N/A	 The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade#N/A	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.#N/A	Why#N/A	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.#N/A	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.#N/A	Built-in flash is not so great.#N/A	 Built-in flash is not so great#N/A	Built-in flash is not so great#N/A	I did a lot of research going into the purchase.#N/A	 No autofocus when zooming while taking video#N/A	 I could not see myself spending that much .#N/A	standard#N/A	standard#N/A	helpful#N/A	helpful#N/A	standard#N/A	helpful#N/A	November#N/A	standard#N/A	period#N/A	helpful#N/A	customers#N/A	interesting#N/A	continuous#N/A	SLRMango	bought#N/A	penny#N/A	standard#N/A	standard#N/A	compared#N/A	EspeciallyPro & Con	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOther Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Pro & Con	ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Pro & Con	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Pro And Cons	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Overall Review 	VERY PLEASEDOverall Review 	I love this chair.Ease Of Use/installation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsEase Of Use/installation	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.Ease Of Use/installation	 and easly instaled it in the car.Ease Of Use/installation	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out ofCons	The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car.Cons	there is absolutely NO padding.Pro	 It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. Pro	 very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well. Overall a very nice car seat for the price. This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.Number Of People Who Already Purchased	4.5 out of 5 starsNumber Of Positive Reviews/negative	259 ReviewsNumber Of Positive Reviews/negative	259 ReviewsDelays In Continuous Mode	he T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Built In Focus Motor	built-in focus motor.Denial Of A Ongoing Problem	  Apparently this is a discussed firmware issue but Nikon claimed they hadnt heard about itInstructions	guide mode1080P Video Speed	1080P videoPhotos	Takes good quality of videos.Seat Quaity	If you see the video when shopping for a car seat I found this to be a great deal for the price. I understand each car seat has to meet standards but I have been please with this one and my husband just purchased an extra one to have in his 06Nissan Frontier.Seat Quaity	 have a four year old and a two year old and they both love their true fit seats. Mommy loves them too. They are easy to install especially as compared to the graco one we bought first. The no rethread harness is awesome. The seat was comfortable looking and big enough rear facing all the way until two years old which is what the apa recommends.Seat Quaity	We are using this as a rear facing seat in our Chevy Malibu and it fits just fine. Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Im glad we had the Chicco Keyfit 30 when our guy was an infant. Im sure this is safe enough but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient. Even though my son isnt quiet 1 yet he was ready for a more toddler friendly seat. This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him. I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.Seat Quaity	I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.Overall Quality Of Seat	Love this car seat   After extensive research and practically being settled on the Britax Advocate I feel like you get what you pay for I was told about this car seat and figured I would give it a try.  Worse case I would just use it in my husbands car and then order the Britax for my car.  No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.  I am going to order another one of these for my husbands car.  It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Overall Quality Of Seat	I love this chair. from when I opened the box and easly instaled it in the car. it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it. Im just thinking how happy she will be when she gets turned around in a few months. This will even work for newborns. if I had known that I would have gotten this a long time ago.Easy 	It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Easy 	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well.Fits Seats With No Problem	It fit fine and snug as can beMore Room Than Carrier Car Seat	 has so much room verses his carrier car seatRated #1 By Consumer Reports	 rated Replacement At No Charge	seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material Weight Limit Not Correctly Stated	he seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Easy To Clean	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Easy To Clean	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. All I can say is this was a great purchase for our familComfort 	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her.Safety With Rear Seat Faceing	Other than the issues in rear facing position this is a terrific seat.Installation Rear Seating	difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt. U	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.U	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Soft	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.Safety 	hen you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is levelSafety 	seat. I did a lot of research on safety price etc. before buying this one.  I actually bought two one for my car and one for my husbands car.  We were very pleased with it.  Both were delivered super fast and in perfect condition.  InsVisor Does Not Block Any Sun	I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out.No Padding- Comfort	where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Meets Standards	 I understand each car seat has to meet standardsAbilities	slow motionAbilities	articulating screenDelay	It makes a huge difference knowing you can press the shutter and the camera will instantly take a picture.  The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Delay	 the delays are still there.Delay	Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.Structure	body is rock solid and worthy of purchase for ANY and ALL people entering or needing an advanced DSLR cameraStructure	not very heavyCamera Structure	flip out LCD screenMode	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forImage Stabilazation	Built in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensAutofocus	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Autofocus	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Autofocus	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic inputAutofocus	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.Autofocus	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.Autofocus	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Autofocus	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Autofocus	 Very fast auto focus on shooting.Autofocus	 No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Autofocus	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slowAutofocus	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Autofocus	#N/AAutofocus	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Autofocus	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Autofocus	the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forAutofocus	No autofocus when zooming while taking videoAutofocus	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Autofocus	wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasAutofocus	No autofocus when zooming while taking videoAutofocus	Auto focus in  live view  modeAutofocus	Very fast auto focus on shootiAutofocus	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasAutofocus	you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.Changing Settings Maunally	 The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual modeArticulating Screen	he articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2iHigh Iso Levels In Auto Mode	there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the settingLow Resolution Led Screen	 Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixelsComfortness	son fits comfortably in it and has so much roomComfortness	comfortableComfortness	material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyKid Likes It	my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all hereRate	 rated Seat Cover	seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchySeat Cover	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyCar Fits	 fit really well in all carsCar Fits	fit well in both of our carsTight Space	its a very tight space to use the light blue head restsHead Rest Is Removable	the head rest is removableNational Rating	 Size Of Seat Is Fairly Large	The size is pretty bigInstallation Process	Easy to installInstallation Process	ERY easy to install base in carWashing Most Of It	there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to washTest	used Beginner's Lens	 Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lensesRatings	0Ratings	Customer ReviewsRatings	 rated Ratings	0Comparison To T2i	 At a glance the camera has a good feel to it and overall has the same features as the T2i. The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menu. The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not.Comparison To T2i	and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keepComparison To T2i	The articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i.Comparison To T2i	 At a glance the camera has a good feel to it and overall has the same features as the T2i. The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Comparison To T2i	 Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Comparison To T2i	 has everything comparable to canon t2  1080p movie 14.2 mp 502g light weight. 3 inch screen Comparison To T2i	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.Comparison To T2i	 At a glance the camera has a good feel to it and overall has the same features as the T2i. The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take.Auto	Auto mode so it acts like a point and shootAuto	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forValue For Money	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.Value For Money	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.Value For Money	worth every pennyValue For Money	Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kitImage Quality	Picture quality on this t2i is stunningImage Quality	  Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera.  Ive taken some stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens combo.Image Quality	I will not go into extended technical aspects as I am person that is making a transition from an old point and shoot to this DLSR. Camera is just amazing. For a begginer in the professional photography area I definetly see an ocean of difference between the t2i and point and shoot cameras.Image Quality	The T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to.  Image Quality	This body is rock solid and worthy of purchase for ANY and ALL people entering or needing an advanced DSLR camera.Image Quality	 I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer. The quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it. I also took a picture of a cherry tree that was about 30 yards away and then opened it up in Photoshop zoomed in and could see cherries that I could not even see with my eyes from the spot where I took the picture.Image Quality	The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Image Quality	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Image Quality	  The bottom line is that images from the D3100 are indistinguishable from the more expensive models.Easy To Use Easy Learning Curve	Its my first digital SLR Ive had it for about a year and I love it.  The T3i is out now so thats probably a better bet but I love the fact that I can slowly advance my knowledge of the SLR usage as I go.  Starting off on full auto moving through the different pre-determined settings sports portrait landscape etc and the into the manual modes.Sturdiness	65lbsFile Size And Resolution	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuild Quality	. Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all dayAutomode	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  TAutomode	I took some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very good. Also i loved the guide mode when in doubt use guide. The best part was the 1080P video. I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good and my wife who is very difficult to please liked it so much that she said that next time we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100  I guess now i can finally retire my mini DV video camera.Camparison To Buffer Speed Of T21	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhyFlip Out Viewfinder Versus Standard On T2i	The articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i.Options Available In Video Mode	I think that video modes in SLR cameras are fairly useless unless you are good with manual focussing and use the tripod. BTW the lens IS does work in video mode.Poor Iso Choice In Auto Mode	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Value 	For ease of use IQ form factor it wont weigh me down etc. I feel as if the D3100 was a great purchase. Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup.Value 	Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera.  Ive taken some stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens combo.  Save yourself the headache of working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body.  Pair it with the lens of your choice but I have no regrets with my 17-55mm purchase.Value 	I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.Value 	 At a glance the camera has a good feel to it and overall has the same features as the T2i. The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take.Value 	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraComparison Of Lcd Screen To T2i	 Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Consumer Reports	 Consumer Reports	rated Consumer Reports	I purchased this seat because it was rated Transition	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerComfort And Ease Of Install	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Comfort Of Child And Parent	this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.Instuction Materials	The instructions were a little hard for me to followComfort Of Child	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Long Term Adjustability	They were pretty easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seatsStyle And Function	This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Amount Or Placement Of Padding	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Ease Of Getting Child In And Out	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durablePicture Taking	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performanceVideo Performance	60fps HD RecordingVideo Performance	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoFor Beginners	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and"\Prosumer\"""""	It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLRDifferent Kinds Of Photos	 I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazingSkate/surf Video	It is GREAT for skate/surf video because ofZoom	f you are looking to do mainly surf but this camera BODY ONLY + a 18-135mm 55-200mm or 75-300mmZoom	I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer. Zoom	#N/AZoom	#N/AZoom	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Zoom	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Zoom	 I also took a picture of a cherry tree that was about 30 yards away and then opened it up in Photoshop zoomed in and could see cherries that I could not even see with my eyes from the spot where I took the pictureZoom	 I am impressed with the lens that comes with the camera for the wide angle aspect of it due to a lot of places I shoot pictures there are a lot of people and requires me to get close to get the shot I wantZoom	doesnt zoom far enough at allZoom	 I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer.Macro Shots	high quality photos of fairly small works of sculpture art using the Canon 60mm macro lensPicture Preview	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slowBeginner's Toy	Excellent Beginners DSLRDark Venues	very specific use for it which is wedding photography and on dark venues the extra steps with the high ISO combined with large apertures on lenses provided the best combination for my needs.Price Saving Kit	And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.Low Light Video	 shoots great in low lighting settingsPortability	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lensPortability	Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all dayPortability	extremely mobile. I can just flip open my tripod lock and GOPortability	not very heavy.  It looks like it should be but does not feel like it is.  It appears to be a very sturdy cameraPortability	it wont weigh me downPortability	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Portability	Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.Portability	Light weight great body design.Portability	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for tripsFirst Time Users	For ease of use IQ form factor it wont weigh me down etc. I feel as if the D3100 was a great purchaseFirst Time Users	I am not a professional so please dont take my opinion as someone acting as an authority on this subject but as a first time user I am happy and hope my review will help any other first time digital camera fans out there.  Thanks.Slower Than T2i	#N/ASculptural Art	camera first of all to take high quality photos of fairly small works of sculpture artSaving Formats	I have the camera saving in both RAW and JPEG until I can get familiar enough to switch completely to RAWAuto Foucus	Very fast auto focus on shooting.LCD Display	Low resolution of LCD screenSensors	. The macro features are also on par with its more advanced and WAY higher priced big brothers to this camera. Now the 18.1MP sensor.....WOW  The image sizes of the CMOS sensor allow me great latitude in adjusting and tweaking my RAW images anytime I wish to be creative.Cable	Disappointed they offer HDMI input but dont provided the cableMemory Card Cost	Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or moreDull Photos	with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.Beginners	Highly recommended to other newbies whHandling	Light weight great body design.Remote	No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. Customer Service	Canon service is apparently better than nikonCustomer Service	ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.Visibility 	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Outside Reviews	rated Cleanable	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skinCleanable	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily Cleanable	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily Cleanable	but I do NOT love cleaning itBig Space	Big enough for a toddlerSpace Fitting	Very bulkyAdjust Strap Length	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing positionCapacity	The seat holds a child up to 65lbsCapacity	The seat holds a child up to 65lbsCapacity	its a very tight space to use the light blue head restsBetter Than Britax	Britax Advocate I feel like you get what you pay for I was told about this car seat and figured I would give it a try.Safe And Secure	 My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Good For Infants And Toddlers	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerVery Big. Might Not Fit In Small Cars	Very bulkyDescription Is Bad	 the product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat.Head/neck Support Cushion	 head/neck support cushionInfant Seat	but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient. Space In Smaller Cars	is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Washing	headrest pad is attached to another pad that continues down the back behind the main pad   So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to washAdjustable And Reclines	recline it at 3 different levelsAdjustable And Reclines	adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levelsProduct Info	product features and product description contradict each other Product Info	It looks just as it is picturedConvenience Infant	I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenientConvenience Toddler	this seat makes it easy to do so.Com	#N/AAdjustable Straps	No thread adjustable strapsAdjustable Straps	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing positionAdjustable Straps	adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seatsAdjustable Straps	  I love the no rethread harness and although it took me a bit to figure out how to work it it is still fairly simple and much preferrable over the rethread type.Breathable	This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperatureBreathable	black fabric in Texas summers Stylish	stylishStylish	Loved the colors as well.Transitions	 car seat is very easy to get baby in and out ofA Beginner's Camera	Excellent Beginners DSLRSize (lightweight)	 Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Size (lightweight)	 not very heavyComparison To T31	 If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is differentWeigh	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for tripsWeigh	The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm gripWeigh	. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both haLow-light Performance	good low-light performanceLense Value	 The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensWide-angle Performance	Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shadeVideo Auto-focus	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the pictureUV Filter For Lense	Make sure to get UV filterCamera Performance	make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body cameraMore Lenses	lens kitGrid On Screen	gridLens Kit	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the moneyLens Kit	Save yourself the headache of working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body.Lens Kit	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.A Beginner's Camera	As a first time Digital SLR buyer and user I love this camera and would highly recommend it to others.Interface	The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode. I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.Interface	Easy to operate.Saftey	my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly.  It isnt hard to get back on and it is nice that it pops off so it can go on either side but it is annoying when he gets it off and starts throwing it around.Saftey	  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Easy To Use	the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well.Rating	259 ReviewsRating	Canon EOS Rebel T3i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-Inch Clear View Vari-Angle LCD and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS LensLow Light Auto Focus	Almost no low light auto focusBuilt-in Falsh	Built-in flash is not so great.Comments	#N/AComments#price	#N/AIso Button	my favorite thing is the dedicated iso button making it easy to change quickly.Iso Button	i would recommend this camera over any one on the market and shoots great in low lighting settings. all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels natural. my favorite thing is the dedicated iso button making it easy to change quickly.Iso Button	i would recommend this camera over any one on the market and shoots great in low lighting settings. all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels natural. my favorite thing is the dedicated iso button making it easy to change quickly.D3100_price_coupon	649.00 549.0White Balance	White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.White Balance	White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.White Balance	White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. White Balance	White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up.White Balance	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original fileT3i_comments_comp	Eventhough i got this for a normal price i love this camera like anything. Being a beginner in photographyi took much time to decide on models between T2iT3i and 60D. Atlast i bought T3i and i am very much satisfied with the product. Amazon prime helped to get the delivery in a very shortest period which was not imaginable.The only mistake i did was i bought 2 different lens18-55 T2i_commems_comp	If your looking for a great Camera look no further you have found it  If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100. Operate	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Quality Of Videos	Takes good quality of videos.Wireless Remote	No wireless remote.Dur	#N/ADigital 3X Zoom	Digital 3x zoom in video mode.For Beginner	I researched for several weeks looking seriously at the Canon T2i and the Nikon D3100.  For the money the D3100 cant be beat.  What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.  I have learned more using that mode in one week than from the weeks Ive spent reading books and websites.Usability	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durableUsability	It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great productUsability	Big enough for a toddlerUsability	head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Usability	  Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.Usability	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsUsability	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issueUsability	I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Usability	 The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Usability	Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in.Usability	The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.Usability	This seat would onlt fit in the 2nd row in the middle seating position so that it came up almost through the 2 front seats.  I doubt this seat would fit into any other position in any carUsability	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Usability	Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Photo/video Quality	I have had it for a few months now and I get alot of great compliments on my pictures they are professional looking my family and friends say and these are just on the automatic setting LOL wait until I read more and experiment. I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing. My friends son is Captain of his High School Football team and I have gotten some great shots for him to send to recruiters and colleges now lets talk Video I have taken alot for Football and I can not believe the quality and sound you would have thought I used a real video camera and not one from a camera it has surpassed what I have expected for a camera I am unbelievably happy with my purchase.Photo/video Quality	I took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality. I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer. The quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it. I also took a picture of a cherry tree that was about 30 yards away and then opened it up in Photoshop zoomed in and could see cherries that I could not even see with my eyes from the spot where I took the picture.Photo/video Quality	I chose to purchase the camera body separately so that I could pair it with the EF-S 17-55mm f/2.8 IS USM lens.  Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera.  Ive taken some stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens combo.Menu	The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode.Save About $100	 The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spenCould Pair It With EF-S 17 55 Mm F/2.8IS	ly so that I could pair it with the EF-S 17-55mm f/2.8 IS I	Easy to installI	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.Best Bang For Your Buck	my best friend. I chose the t2i over t3i because I didnt feel I would need to use the movable lcd screen and couldnt justify spending that much money on it. If you are condsidering the t3i go ahead and get theGood For Beginners	For a begginer in the professional photography area I definetly see an ocean of difference between the t2i and point and shoot cameras. Picture quality on this t2i is stunning so many features that it will take me months to figure out how to really get the most out of this cCo	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it.In	Easy to installIn	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Need A Lot Of Storage Space	The pictures at full 18MP take a lot of memory. Better get some means of decent storage space 750-1TB hardrive will doBest Balance For Wedding Pictures	 decided that this model offered me the best balance. I also kept in mind that I have a very specific use for it which is wedding photography and on dark veRugged Enough	 rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day.  I haT2i Is Fast	he T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to.  It makes a huge difference knowToo Much Delays	sponsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.Do Not Have A Built In Focus Motor	kon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am sure the Nikon D5100 is a spectacular camera and it sports a larder image sensor than theQuality Is Amazing	he quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it. I also took a picture of a cherry tree that was about 30 yards away aTight On Power Comsumption	is camera is very tight on power consumption anFlip Out LCD Screem	I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the videBad Nikon Warranty	 pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better thanDedicated Iso Button Making It Easy To Change	dicated iso button making it easy to change quickly.Wallet Friendly 	onus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want Diffcult To Install 	.  Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick. One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of aPlease Their Customers	ho please their customers Size Is Pretty Big	he size is pretty big not reallySeat Seam Padded Well And Comfortable	  Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.  Ive felt a lot of other car seats out there that feel like theyd be pretty hard to sit on and uncomfoChair Is Excellent Quality	 chair is excellent quality.No Rethread Harness Is Awesome	The no rethread harness is awesome. The seat was comfortable looking and big enough rear facing all the way until two years old which is what the apaAdvanced Skill	#N/AErgonomic Arrangement Of Controls	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.  The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode. I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.  The view finder is very clear and has all basic settings info on the bottom border.  The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRs.Quality Of Picture And Weight	I love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy.  It looks like it should be but does not feel like it is.  It appears to be a very sturdy camera.Low Resolution Of LCD Screen	 Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.Different Shots	I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing.Manual Mode	  The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode.High Speed And Memory Card	 high speed memory cardUser-friendliness	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.User-friendliness	 The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not.User-friendliness	I took some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very good. Also i loved the guide mode when in doubt use guide.Autofocus When Zooming	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.White Balance In Auto Mode	White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.Colors	I also dont like some of the colors but that is personal preferenceColors	  Loved the colors as wellBuild	The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.Build	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Stabilization	The IS works really wellInstallation Ease	 Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seatInstallation Ease	 VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabricTexture	 VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabricMaterials	 One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Materials	You do need a seat protector but youd need that with any car seatColor	I also dont like some of the colors but that is personal preference.Color	I also dont like some of the colors but that is personal preference.Looks	 but this seat is also stylish Looks	This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or styleBuild	Additionally with the side impact shaping its a very tight space to use the light blue head rests shown in the listing picture.  I havent tested it out yet but just from the appearance I can tell its not going to work.Great Lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Little Shutter	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.U	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.U	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Good Low Light	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.U	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.U	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.And Videos	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.No Auto-focus	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.No Auto-focus	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOther Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Shutter Lag	Minimal shutter lagShutter Lag	 shutter and the camera will instantly take a pictureShutter Lag	 Very fast auto focus on shooting.Ergonomic Button Settings	  I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.Camera Feels Solid And Good Grip	The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.Not Pro Level SLR	This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.Auto Focus Is Terrible	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Good Quality For Videos	Takes good quality of videos.Very Fast Auto Focus	Very fast auto focus on shootingNo Wireless Remote	 No wireless remote.Battery Life Is Bad	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.Safest Baby Seat On Market	it has the highest safety rating.Their Son Loves It	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Their Son Loves It	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Is Very Big	The size is pretty bigCatches Stuff Under The Seat	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCan Only Hold Up To 50 Lbs	The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Very Bulky	so I dont mind the bulkVery Secure And Kids Love Them	It holds the girls very secure and they love them.Simplicity	 The material is easy to take offFairly Priced	the price is very reasonable.Material Is Very Soft Good For Babies	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Poorly Built Visor Allows Light In	the biggest is this darn sun visorBabies Sitting On Hard Plastic	So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.Low Light Performance	good low-light performanceIntermediate Shooters	for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.Image Stabilisation	Built in image stabilizerMovable LCD Screen	articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.Auto Mode Picture Quality	problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photos.Guide Mode For Beginners	What sold me was the guide mode.No Blockage Of View	head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Product Description	the product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat.  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Safety Tested	It is side crash testedPhoto Quality	#N/ABeginning User	#N/ACup-holder	#N/AUsability	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Usability	2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.Usability	No Flip-out LCDConvenience	 Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Convenience	  I love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy.  It looks like it should be but does not feel like it is.  It appears to be a very sturdy camera.Convenience	Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup.DSLR	T2i is the Best Entry Level DSLRQuality Of Pictures	 I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Quality Of Pictures	Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modesQuality Of Pictures	  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Material Cleaning	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin.Material Cleaning	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Deliver	Both were delivered super fast Size (big)	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.  Also my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly.  It isnt hard to get back on and it is nice that it pops off so it can go on either side but it is annoying when he gets it off and starts throwing it around.  Of course it would be that or his toys or whatever else he could find if he couldnt get it off.  You do need a seat protector but youd need that with any car seat.  I also dont like some of the colors but that is personal preference.Removable Parts	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.  Also my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly.  It isnt hard to get back on and it is nice that it pops off so it can go on either side but it is annoying when he gets it off and starts throwing it around.  Of course it would be that or his toys or whatever else he could find if he couldnt get it off.  You do need a seat protector but youd need that with any car seat.  I also dont like some of the colors but that is personal preference.Holding Weight	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Height Adjustment	Some of the reviews complain that the Air  wings  cause problems for the kid seeing out but their height is adjustable AND I really like that when my daughter falls asleep they hold her head up so its not bobbing all over the place.Wing Cleaning	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.Pricing	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Strap Adjustment	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Strap Adjustment	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.Price Comparison	189.99 169.Darn Sun Visor	the biggest is this darn sun visorPrice Comparison	189.99 169.Headrest	head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still smallHeadrest	the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by handHeadrest	its a very tight space to use the light blue head restsMateri	emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of chargeSensor	The nikon D5100 has a better larger DX sensor vs canon APS sized sensor sensor. So less noise on the Nikon.Sensor	The nikon D5100 has a better larger DX sensor vs canon APS sized sensor sensor.Er	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Advice	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare batteryFilter	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare batteryFilter	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Safety	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Bugs	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Application	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the pictureEditing	zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed pictureAdditional Features	The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.Additional Features	No wireless remote.Additional Features	head rest is removableScreeen	I looked at many items before pulling the trigger on the Canon T3i. I went to Best buy and tested out the Canon T2i the Nikon D5100 the Canon 60D and the Nikon D7000. After testing out all the products I came to the decision that the only cameras I liked that felt good in my hand were the Canon T2i Nikon D5100 and the Can T3i. I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal. The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am sure the Nikon D5100 is a spectacular camera and it sports a larder image sensor than the Canon. I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.Shoots Great In Low Light	Im a film student and was trying to decide between a t3i and Nikon 5100. everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera. the 600d has better continuous recording you have better manual capabilities. after a lot research i decided to go with the canon i went with a t3i and not a t2i for the flip around screen. i shoot in awkward positions sometimes and it defiantly comes in handy. i would recommend this camera over any one on the market and shoots great in low lighting settings. all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels natural. my favorite thing is the dedicated iso button making it easy to change quickly.Reclines	The First Years True Fit Recline Convertible Car SeatChild Fusses Less	his seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.  I am going to order another one of these for my husbands car.  It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Speed 	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOther Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Material Scratches Easily	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers Well Padded And Easy To Install	  Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.  I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.  Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.  Ive felt a lot of other car seats out there that feel like theyd be pretty hard to sit on and uncomfortable.Weight 	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOther Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Comfort And Installation	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsSafety First	Amazon.com Customer Reviews Safety 1st Complete Air 65 Protect Convertible Car Seat Silver LeafWeight Limits	Currently the product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat.  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs."Battery Life, Low Resolution  LCD Screen"	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Playback	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Child Comfort Level	We asked for this as a Baby Shower gift back in 2010 when my daughter was born. Started to use it in Feb of this year my daughter is on the small side so she just outgrew the infant seat and LOVE IT  Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Not Easy To Clean	he  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.  Thats not so bad since she did not puke on that part except that I was not aware that the headrest pad is attached to another pad that continues down the back behind the main pad   So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.  Im having quite an interesting time getting the nasty puke smell out Comparison With T3i	 according to the experts there is really not much difference betrween t2i and the t3i.Comparison With T3i	direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keepComparing Another Nodel	bought this seat for my son who is now 8 months old.  I got it because I already have the Safety 1st Air Protect On Board 35 SE Infant Car Seat which I love. ",speed"	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Keeps Child Temperature At A Comfortable Level	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.  Some seats seemed too bulky and I know my daughter would be a sweaty mess in those styles.  This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped in.Flip Screen	allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.Name Of Product	Graco Snugride Child Car SeatSide Crash Tested	I absolutely love this car seat. It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. I highly recommend this it item.HDMI Cable	 Disappointed they offer HDMI input but dont provided the cable.Getting Child In And Out	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out ofWorking With Other Products	Works perfectly with the Snap N Go stroller piece.Body Comparison With Canon T2i	The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Lack Of Padding	Not much padding in the seat part..Lack Of Padding	Ive purchased SnugRides in the past but this is the first one to have a serious lack of adequate padding.  Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEATCup Holder	my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quicklyCup Holder	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Cup Holder	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Seat Protector	You do need a seat protectorDifficult To Install 	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickChange Size	recline it at 3 different levels.Usage	very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durableHeadrest Comfortable	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view Headrest Comfortable	 As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once.Cleaning Comfortable	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skinStrap	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.Baby Proofing	  Also my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly.  It isnt hard to get back on and it is nice that it pops off so it can go on either side but it is annoying when he gets it off and starts throwing it around.Fabric	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Fabric	This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touchStroller Compatible	Works perfectly with the Snap N Go stroller piece.Toddler	Big enough for a toddlerToddler	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsMaterial Used	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Build Quality	ut I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.Safety FEatures	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move aroundSafety FEatures	 it has the highest safety rating.Safety FEatures	#N/ASafety FEatures	 its very comfortable and appears to be very safeAdditional Things Required	  You do need a seat protector but youd need that with any car seat.Annoying Features	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Annoying Features	he biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Battery Life 	Other Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Overall Performance 	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasControl	with user-friendly controlsRaw Pictures	s.  Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera.  Ive taken some stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens comboOverall 	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iOverall 	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Burst Mode	The T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to.ISO Mode	here is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  Portability	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Specs	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Specs	They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that baseAccesories	he next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra baseFabric Quality	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Performance And Weight	#N/APrice And Focus	#N/ALight	 light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day.Light	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Auto Setting	different pre-determined settings sports portrait landscape etcIs Good First Time Dslr	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensThe Flash Is Not So Good	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shadeLens Compared To Others	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Output	Disappointed they offer HDMI input but dont provided the cable. Video Taking	the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menu.Video Taking	The best part was the 1080P videoHelp Function	My only issue with the T3i concerns the GRID functions. These work only in LIVE VIEW MODEAdaptability For Beginners 	if this is your first DSLRPicture Is Slow 	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the pictureRecommendations	#NAME?Wide Angle Settings	when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shadeAuto ISO Level Chossing	there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto ModeAgreement	79 of 81 people found the following review helpfuPricey But Great Camera	Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body cameraVaritey	nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazingFocus Speed	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Focus Speed	 Very fast auto focus on shootingSlow Motion	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Noise Of Lens	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function Lens Performance	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasAudio Levels	No audio recording level adjustVideo Recording 	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iCamera's Auto Focus	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingBeginner	I will not go into extended technical aspects as I am person that is making a transition from an old point and shoot to this DLSR. Camera is just amazing. For a begginer in the professional photography area I definetly see an ocean of difference between the t2i and point and shoot cameras.Beginner	Its my first digital SLRBeginner	This body is rock solid and worthy of purchase for ANY and ALL people entering or needing an advanced DSLR camera.Beginner	As a first time Digital SLR buyer and user I love this camera and would highly recommend it to others.  We took about 300 pictures at a Thanksgiving get together and a few other people tried the camera out and were impressed as well.Beginner	  For the money the D3100 cant be beat.Beginner	  i would recommend this to anybody i know who is into DSLR. NIKON  way to go  Argument	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal.Recommendation	Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes.Buying Extras For The Camera	 I would recommend to get a high speed memory card. The pictures at full 18MP take a lot of memory. Better get some means of decent storage space 750-1TB hardrive will doExposure And Image Quality	very specific use for it which is wedding photography and on dark venues the extra steps with the high ISO combined with large apertures on lenses provided the best combination for my needs.Compatability	Nikon suggests certain memory cards that they certified to use with this camera. It Is A Slow Camera	Canon EOS Rebel T3i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-Inch Clear View Vari-Angle LCD and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS LensBad	ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Adaptability For Beginners	Perfect for a beginnerIt Is Good For On The Go.	It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lensesZoom Capabilities	I took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality. I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer. The quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it. I also took a picture of a cherry tree that was about 30 yards away and then opened it up in Photoshop zoomed in and could see cherries that I could not even see with my eyes from the spot where I took the picture. I can not wait to get Canon 15-85mm f/3.5-5.6 EF-S Zoom Lens and than I will be in some serious business.Unprofessional	I am not a professional so please dont take my opinion as someone acting as an authority on this subjectFocusing And Flexibility	 This camera is very tight on power consumption and has extreme accuracy when you set it for pinpoint focusing as I do for model and portrait photography work. The macro features are also on par with its more advanced and WAY higher priced big brothers to this camera. Now the 18.1MP sensor.....WOW  The image sizes of the CMOS sensor allow me great latitude in adjusting and tweaking my RAW images anytime I wish to be creative.Affordable	  For the money the D3100 cant be beat.It Take Nice Large Jpage	Nikon D3100 16.2MP CMOS Digital SLR Camera with 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 AF-S DX VR Nikkor Zoom LensIt Has A Nice Wait To It	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for tripsFocusing Motors	Since I have switched from Nikon to Canon a lot of my review is based on comparison to Nikon.ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Live View Feature	Since I have switched from Nikon to Canon a lot of my review is based on comparison to Nikon.ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Picture Quality On Auto Mode	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Picture Quality On Auto Mode	I took some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very good. Also i loved the guide mode when in doubt use guide. The best part was the 1080P videoIt Take Fast Shots	I have the camera saving in both RAW and JPEG until I can get familiar enough to switch completely to RAW.  Saving in this format is 20MB a picture and this card has no trouble keeping upIt Take Good Video	Canon EOS Rebel T2i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-inch LCD and and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS LensIt Is Better Then The T3I	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Seating	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inCheap	  It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.Not Washable	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easilyComf	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Com	I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit.  It is so high in fact that my 3 1/2 year old would still be able to be rear facing in this seatSa	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.Upgrade	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.C	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well. Overall a very nice car seat for the price.Upgrade	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Cost Of Lens	first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lensesAttributes	No autofocus when zooming while taking videoAttributes	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.Attributes	T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. Attributes	 main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menu. The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not.Acessories	working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera bodyQuality Of PIcture	professional looking my family and friendsInstallation 	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Easy Installation 	The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra. As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once.Easy Installation 	easly instaled Position	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards. They would have rested on the middle seats.Pros And Cons	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.  light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Easy To Carry	Relatively light Pricey And Flash Is Not Good	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so greatCrop Body Camera	Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera.Get Nice Complements	I have had it for a few months now and I get alot of great compliments on my pictures they are professionalGreat Shot Of Moving Characters	My friends son is Captain of his High School Football team and I have gotten some great shots for him to send to recruiters and colleges now lets talk Video I have taken alot for Football and I can not believe the quality and soundAudip	No audio recording level adjustT2I Is Faster	decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhyPixel	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iProcessor	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iProcessor	Canon EOS Rebel T3i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-Inch Clear View Vari-Angle LCD and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS LensFilm	If you are just starting out are bored with the out of date  point-n-shoot  want to upgrade your digital cams or you want to move from film to digital the T3i will not disappoint.Pixel 	Nikon D3100 16.2MP CMOS Digital SLR Camera with 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 AF-S DX VR Nikkor Zoom LensOperations Video Quality	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Overall this is an incredible camera. You will not regret it.In addition if youd love to take beautiful portraits for your beloved ones Id highly recommend you to also get a Nikon 35mm f/1.8G AF-S DX Lens for Nikon Digital SLR Cameras. It can be used to take short range portraits close-ups and indoors where the light is insufficient. I am not doing ads for Nikon or Amazon but you will really find the lens worth your investment.1080p And Better Menu	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menu. The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not.Overall Usage	Excellent camera though a bit expensive - worth every penny.Overall Usage	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light Overall Usage	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.  I conducted countless hours of research on Canons Nikons and even Sonys.Overall Usage	 If you are just starting out are bored with the out of date  point-n-shoot  want to upgrade your digital cams or you want to move from film to digital the T3i will not disappoint. Its an excellent camera for ANY level of photographer - beginner or experienced pro this camera really shines.Overall Usage	i would recommend this camera over any one on the market and shoots great in low lighting settings. all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels natural. my favorite thing is the dedicated iso button making it easy to change quickly.Overall Usage	Being new to the DSLR world though an avid photography enthusiast for many years theres not a lot for me to compare the D3100 to. However my own experience in the short week since I purchased the camera has been extremely gratifying.Overall Usage	i have probably saved  200-300  i would recommend this to anybody i know who is into DSLR. NIKON  way to go  Wide-Angle Setting	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasPortrait	 I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing.Sports	 I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing.Sports	wait until I read more and experiment. I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing. My friends son is Captain of his High School Football team and I have gotten some great shots for him to send to recruiters and colleges now lets talk Nature	 I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing.Compared To Other Cameras	For a begginer in the professional photography area I definetly see an ocean of difference between the t2i and point and shoot cameras.Articulating LCD Screen	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. Articulating LCD Screen	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screenArticulating LCD Screen	i went with a t3i and not a t2i for the flip around screen. i shoot in awkward positions sometimes and it defiantly comes in handy.Detailed Zoom	I took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality. I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer.Grid Function	My only issue with the T3i concerns the GRID functions. These work only in LIVE VIEW MODE as Ive found so far. AV Mode	No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.Mi	No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.Ove	i would recommend this camera over any one on the market and shoots great in low lighting settings. all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels natural. my favorite thing is the dedicated iso button making it easy to change quickly.Min Shutter Speed	No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.AV Mode	No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.Low Cost	i have probably saved  200-300  i would recommend this to anybody i know who is into DSLR. NIKON  way to go  Dimensions	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Dimensions	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out thereDimensions	Very bulky.Dimensions	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Dimensions	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards. They would have rested on the middle seats.Dimensions	he biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out.Dimensions	head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Take Apart	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Protection	protects my little girl and it provides comfert for herScratchy	seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchySeurity	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secureFuzzy	 soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyNo Padding	there is absolutely NO paddingNo Padding	NO padding.  -Delivery Speed	The car seat was delivered one day after I ordered it online. Which was outstanding. I took it out of the box and my 2 year old became giddy with excitement. Normally he literally fights and struggles when it is time to get into the the car but not this time. I love this chair  My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure. I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra. As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once.Different Level Adjustmenst 	car seat. It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. I highly recommend this it item.Not Enough Padding In The Seat	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.  light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Overall Performance	I am very pleased that I purchased this car seat.Overall Performance	this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.Overall Performance	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Overall Performance	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.Sound	Mic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensShooting Speed	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhyShooting Speed	Since I have switched from Nikon to Canon a lot of my review is based on comparison to Nikon.ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Auto Mode Logic	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Lens Noise	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Picture Quality 	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasPicture Quality 	there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photos.Picture Quality 	  If you want sharp pictures you have to use P S A or M modes with the D3100.  There you can control the ISO manually or use Auto ISO and choose a lower maximum ISO setting. Picture Quality 	  Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modesPicture Quality 	I took some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very good.Picture Quality 	I took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality. I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer. The quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it. I also took a picture of a cherry tree that was about 30 yards away and then opened it up in Photoshop zoomed in and could see cherries that I could not even see with my eyes from the spot where I took the picture. I can not wait to get Canon 15-85mm f/3.5-5.6 EF-S Zoom Lens and than I will be in some serious businessPicture Quality 	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A General Performance	Battery life is not too greaGeneral Performance	T2i is the one I will keep.  WhyGeneral Performance	T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous modeGeneral Performance	does not block my view since he is still small.Video Features	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am sure the Nikon D5100 is a spectacular camera and it sports a larder image sensor than the Canon. I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.Overall Rating	I researched several SLRs before deciding on the Canon T3i.  Im happy with my choice so far having purchased the camera first of all to take high quality photos of fairly small works of sculpture art using the Canon 60mm macro lens.  For that use the camera and lens seem to work very well.  I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.  The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode. I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.  The view finder is very clear and has all basic settings info on the bottom border.  The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRs. Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger with a swing-out plug.  This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.Long-lasting	ice and heavy very durableSpeed	spending that much Speed	e I would just use it in my husbands car and then order the Britax for my car.  No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all herQua	enter. It fit fine and snug as can be. What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not blHd Capability	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money coHd Capability	 Oh and the video.....Its 1080p HD nothing more needs to be said. Canon youve been ROCKIN my images for 30+ years     Stay cool and keep up the greatHd Capability	The best part was the 1080P video.Comparison Vs T2i	Im a film student and was trying to decide between a t3i and Nikon 5100. everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera. the 600d has better continuous recording you have better manual capabilities. after a lot research i decided to go with the canon i went with a t3i and not a t2i for the flip around screen. i shoot in awkward positions sometimes and it defiantly comes in handySerious Photography	There are very many accessories and lenses for this camera.  If you want to really get serious about photography or video making then get THIS camera.Price Of Lens	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Outdoor Shoot	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.Overall Camera	  Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modesAstrophotography	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingLow Resolution	1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Low Battery Life	1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Low Battery Life	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Noisy	1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Professionalism	This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.Specifics	Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Use	It is so easy to use and install Cover	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Cover	he material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Cover	he material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Summers	May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.User Feedback	his seat is great and my son LOVES itUser Feedback	she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it. Im just thinking how happy she will be when she gets turned around in a few months. This will evenUser Feedback	Again my little girl likes being in the seat and able to look out of the windows at the world around her. I would recommend thisIndependent Rating	rated Complications	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards. They would have rested on the middle seats.  Other than that it is an awesome seat.  It holds tOptions	it my newborns head with the extra cushion that came with it.  Loved the colors as well. Works perfectly with the Snap N Go stroller piecLarge	 However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drivesSpecifics	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsShutterlag	Minimal shutter lagMax Burst Rate	3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustGood For Trips	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Purchase	couldnt be more happier with this PurchasePurchase	 I purchased the camera has been extremely gratifyingPurchase	I am very happy about the decision.Purchase	 was able to purchase a telephoto lens to go with it.  Worth every penny.  I look forward to many years of great photos.Slow Speed	Slower than T2i User-friendly Control	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.Sports Video	It is GREAT for skate/surf video because of its 60fps mode.ISO Firmware	Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes.Auto Point	Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes.Good Shots	 I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing.Good Lense	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOther Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Bad GRID Fuctions	My only issue with the T3i concerns the GRID functions.Slow Auto-focus	Since I have switched from Nikon to Canon a lot of my review is based on comparison to Nikon.ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Good Service	Since I have switched from Nikon to Canon a lot of my review is based on comparison to Nikon.ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Auto-mode	the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Easy Operation	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Low LCD Resolution	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Snug	really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.User Experience	my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all hereRanking	 rated Baby Shower Gift Option	Baby Shower giftBuckle	 the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well.#N/A	No audio recording level adjust#N/A	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input#N/A	quality and sound#N/A	1080p HD#N/A	1080p