Label	Clip
Screen	Im glad to have this camera it has everything comparable to canon t2  1080p movie 14.2 mp 502g light weight. 3 inch screen . i dont really mind the 230k dots screen its very bright and clear anyways compare to 900+ dots  . 	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. 	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this camera	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.	 articulating LCD screen.	 Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.	The articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i	Digital	Digital	I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels.	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this camera	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.	articulating LCD screen.	Low resolution of LCD screen.	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.
Size	The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car. 	It is a big seat especially rear facing	Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in	I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient.	he seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car.	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti	We started shopping around and figure that a 17in. wide infant car seat will do	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there	I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars	 a little big	Yes it is a big car seat	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti	Big enough for a toddler	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car	it is a big car seat	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small. 	great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car	little small	The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car. I currently live in Japan where my hubby is currently stationed with the USMC.  We drive a large van similar to the old Chevy Astro van.  This seat would onlt fit in the 2nd row in the middle seating position so that it came up almost through the 2 front seats.  I doubt this seat would fit into any other position in any car.  My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing. Between my 3 kids Ive been through about 6 different convertible car seats in the past 8 years and this one was by far the most difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt.  At one point or another Ive had to install all of my previous car seats rear facing with the vehicle belt.  The instructions say to lift the seat pad when threading the belt through which I did but then once the seat was installed I couldnt get the pad back down over the seat where it was against the seat back of the actual vehicle seat.  So I had to uninstall it and reinstall it with the pad in its proper place making it very difficult to do.	It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product 	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards	Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do.	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.	I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars.	work for newborns	we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.	The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.	  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs 	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddler	Big enough for a toddler	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy. 	Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra. As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once.	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car. 	 its a very tight space to use the light blue head rests shown in the listing picture.	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti.	The size is pretty big	It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels.	We started shopping around and figure that a 17in. wide infant car seat will do.  I believe this is the only one that fits our need.	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.	 head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small	t is a big car seat	The size is pretty big	The seat is gigantic	The seat is gigantic.	Big enough for a toddler	I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.	ight fit but does the job its supposed to do.	The seat is gigantic	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards.	bigger 	Now for the cons.  The seat is gigantic. 	it has fit really well in all cars.	fits just fine.	17in. wide infant car seat	gigantic	It is as many have explained before a little small as I was used to the bigger and heavier 20D body but I guess is just a matter of getting used to it.	fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.	Big enough for a toddler	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.	light weight and fits well in the middle seat	Fit my newborns head with the extra cushion that came with it.	 with the side impact shaping its a very tight space to use the light blue head rests	we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs	Im sure this is safe enough but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room	Very bulky.	 with the side impact shaping its a very tight space to use the light blue head rests 	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.	Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do. 	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards. 	difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there	The seat is gigantic.	Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability	too inconvenient.	The seat is gigantic.	igure that a 17in. wide 	Very bulky	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.	Very bulky.	it is a big car seat	it is a big car seat	Awesome but a little big	The seat is gigantic	 the biggest is this darn sun visor	The size is pretty big	 size is pretty big	Very bulky	The size is pretty big	 it is a big car seat	Very bulky.	Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Tight fit	light weight 	The seat is gigantic	e seat is big wh	The seat is gigantic.  	Now for the cons.  The seat is gigantic	Very bulky	The seat is gigantic	We are able to use our Britax Marathon a Graco booster and this infant car seat all in one row.	The size is pretty big	It is a big seat especially rear facing	This seat would onlt fit in the 2nd row in the middle seating position	While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh.	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.	  The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.	Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra.	The seat is gigantic	Big enough for a toddler	The size is pretty big	the seat is big	Additionally with the side impact shaping its a very tight space to use the light blue head rests	#N/A	The seat is gigantic	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. 	Very bulky.	it is a big car seat	Although the seat is big	The seat is gigantic	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.	Somewhat Compact size	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there	The size is pretty big	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.	Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do.	Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra.	The seat is gigantic.	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti.	Big enough for a toddler	The size is pretty big	Catch a lot of stuff under the padding	The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.	so I dont mind the bulk	While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh.	Somewhat Compact size	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.	Very bulky.	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.	.  The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.	  It is a big seat especially rear facing	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti.	 it is a big car seat	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy	Very bulky.	Big enough for a toddler	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.	 a high rear facing weight and height limit.  It is so high in fact that my 3 1/2 year old would still be able to be rear facing in this seat.	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base.	it has fit really well in all cars.	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.	 it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.	but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient.	Now for the cons.  The seat is gigantic.	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well.	  The seat is gigantic.	It is as many have explained before a little small	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.	 it is a big car seat 	  It is a big seat especially rear facing. 	The seat is gigantic.	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.	Big enough for a toddler	Very bulky.	a big car seat	Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do.	Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra.	he seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives.	  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.	  The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there	It is a big seat especially rear facing.	The seat is gigantic.	  The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.	Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra. As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once.	  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car. I currently live in Japan where my hubby is currently stationed with the USMC	r seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well.	  The size is pretty big	  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable straps	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.	 Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.	 Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do. 	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra.	Now for the cons.  The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car.	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well. Overall a very nice car seat for the price.	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti.	 But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing. My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.	I have a 2003 Maxima which has a slight bump in the middle	I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars.  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.	We love these carseats.  It is a big seat especially rear facing.  We have a Sienna mini van and we had them both on the bench seat.  Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards.	Somewhat Compact sizeEase of use	Now for the cons.  The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car	is gigantic.	I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars.	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there	  I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit.  It is so high in fact that my 3 1/2 year old would still be able to be rear facing in this seat.	I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.	The size is pretty big	Big enough for a toddler	Very bulky.	Somewhat Compact sizeEase of use	Big enough for a toddlerEasy to install	Big enough for a toddler	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddler	The size is pretty big	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.	  The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge c	  The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car. I currently live in Japan where my hubby is currently stationed with the USMC. 
Speed	Very fast auto focus on shooting.	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow.	adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode	you can press the shutter and the camera will instantly take a picture	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.	adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.	T2i is the one I will keep.  Why	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.	Slower than T2i 	T2i is FAST	3.7 max burst rate not very fast	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  Why	Fast start up speed 	Slower than T2i 	Slower than T2i 	turns on in about 1 second	It is GREAT for skate/surf video because of its 60fps mode.	Fast start up speed 	Focus in live picture mode is slow	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.	FAST	The T2i is FAST	frequent and unpredictable delays	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  Why	3.7 max burst rate not very fast at all	decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  Why	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.	Slower than T2i	  Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots. 	For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  Why	I used the same exact settings on both cameras large Jpeg P-mode Quick AF.  Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.	T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3i	I used the same exact settings on both cameras large Jpeg P-mode Quick AF.  Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.	not very fast at all	Slower than T2i	The T2i is FAST	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.	Focus in live picture mode is slow 	Fast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 second	3.7 max burst rate not very fast at all	The T2i is FAST	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow	Very fast auto focus on shooting	not very fast at all	Slower than T2i	The T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to.  It makes a huge difference knowing you can press the shutter and the camera will instantly take a picture.  The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.	Very fast auto focus on shooting.	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.	  The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.	Fast start up speed	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  Why	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.	Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots	Very fast auto focus on shooting	Very fast auto focus on shooting.	I used the same exact settings on both cameras large Jpeg P-mode Quick AF.  Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.	Fast start up speed	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.	Very fast auto focus on shooting.	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.	#N/A	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode	Slower than T2i 	The T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to.  It makes a huge difference knowin	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses.	adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode	#N/A	#N/A	#N/A	The T2i is FAST.	Slower than T2i	Fast start up speed	The T2i is FAST	I used the same exact settings on both cameras large Jpeg P-mode Quick AF.  Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.	Slower than T2i	this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots	The T2i is FAST	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. 	 Very fast auto focus on shooting.	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  Why	Slower than T2i 	The T2i is FAST	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  Why	ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.	3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting	Slower than T2i 	Slower than T2i 	The T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to.  It makes a huge difference knowing you can press the shutter and the camera will instantly take a picture.  The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  Why	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras	Slower than T2i 	Slower than T2i	I used the same exact settings on both cameras large Jpeg P-mode Quick AF.  Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.	spending that much 	e I would just use it in my husbands car and then order the Britax for my car.  No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all her
Battery Life	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.	Battery life is not too great	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger wi	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected	4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger with a swing-out plug.  This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.	Battery life 	Battery life	. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.	Battery life is not too great	 Battery life is not too great. I	 Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.	Battery life	3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Over	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.	#N/A	 Battery life is not too great	Battery life is not too great	 Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday	Battery life is not too great.	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger with a swing-out plug.	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected	Battery life is not too great.	 Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger with a swing-out plug.	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.	Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras	Battery life is not too great	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.	 Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.	4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.
Memory	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MP	Nikon suggests certain memory cards that they certified to use with this camera.  Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or more.  I purchased two Transcend 8GB Class 10 SDHC Card TS8GSDHC10 from Amazon and so far these have been amazing.  I have the camera saving in both RAW and JPEG until I can get familiar enough to switch completely to RAW.  Saving in this format is 20MB a picture and this card has no trouble keeping up.	emory cards	Nikon suggests certain memory cards that they certified to use with this camera.  Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or more.  I purchased two Transcend 8GB Class 10 SDHC Card TS8GSDHC10 from Amazon and so far these have been amazing.  I have the camera saving in both RAW and JPEG until I can get familiar enough to switch completely to RAW.  Saving in this format is 20MB a picture and this card has no trouble keeping up.	I would recommend to get a high speed memory card. 	 would recommend to get a high speed memory card. The pictures at full 18MP take a lot of memory	 I would recommend to get a high speed memory card. The pictures at full 18MP take a lot of memory. Better get some means of decent storage space 750-1TB hardrive will do	 certain memory cards that they certified to use with this camera.  Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or more.  I purchased two Transcend 8GB Class 10 SDHC Card TS8GSDHC10 from Amazon and so far these have been amazing.  I have the camera saving in both RAW and JPEG until I can get familiar enough to switch completely to RAW.  Saving in this format is 20MB a picture and this card has no trouble keeping up	 high speed memory card. The pictures at full 18MP take a lot of memory.	I purchased two Transcend 8GB Class 10 SDHC Card TS8GSDHC10 from Amazon and so far these have been amazing.  I have the camera saving in both RAW and JPEG until I can get familiar enough to switch completely to RAW.  Saving in this format is 20MB a picture and this card has no trouble keeping up.
Simplicity	Easy to operate.	Ease of use	 Easy to operate.	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.	 The material is easy to take off
Design	extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.  I love the no rethread harness and although it took me a bit to figure out how to work it it is still fairly simple and much preferrable over the rethread type.	when my daughter falls asleep they hold her head up so its not bobbing all over the place.	height is adjustable	adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats.	big car seat	but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.	buckle system is heavy duty	really well constructed and pretty comfy	cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. 	head rest is removable	No thread adjustable straps	Very bulky.	Big enough for a toddler	no rethread harness is awesome	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy	the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy	head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small	. Very fast auto focus on shooting.	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.	extremely mobile	ergonomic arrangement of controls	designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.	Material is easy to clean	s a good choice.  Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto 	Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.	mesh and into the babys eyes	It is a well made and designed car seat	It is a well made and designed car seat	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.	Light weight great body design	my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly	You do need a seat protector but youd need that with any car seat	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue	Catch a lot of stuff under the padding	I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.	a more toddler friendly seat	adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats.	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels.	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.	higher weight limit as well.	buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well	a very tight space to use the light blue head rests	This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal.	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. 	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.  light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.
Durability	I have a baby on the way and know the seat will be durable enough to withstand constant use through 2 children 	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.	nice and heavy very durable	he seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy	durable enou	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable	appears to be a very sturdy camera	I have a baby on the way and know the seat will be durable enough to withstand constant use through 2 children 	Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy	 well constructed	well made and designed	very durable	rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it	The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip	#N/A	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable	 Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day. 	is nice and heavy very durable	Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day.	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well. 	 very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well.
Construction	serious lack of adequate padding	Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day.	form factor it wont weigh me down	 Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.	Also my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly.	We are able to use our Britax Marathon a Graco booster and this infant car seat all in one row.	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable	I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.	the biggest is this darn sun visor	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.	where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.	I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. 
Resolution	the 18.1MP sensor.....WOW  The image sizes of the CMOS sensor allow me great latitude in adjusting and tweaking my RAW images anytime I wish to be creative.	 Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.	Low resolution of LCD screen	 It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MP	I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer.	The best part was the 1080P video.	ow resolution of LCD scree
Style	This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or style	we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.	but this seat is also stylish	seat is also stylish
Flash	Built-in flash is not so great	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade	 Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting	Built-in flash is not so great	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.	Built-in flash	Built-in flash is not so great	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.	The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.	Built-in flash is not so great	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.	frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.	Built-in flash is not so great	#N/A	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.	Built-in flash is not so great.	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras
Picture Quality	he pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A 	pictures are much much better	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for. 	 Picture quality on this t2i is stunning so many features that it will take me months to figure out how to really get the most out of this camera.	I asked a good 10 friends of mine which camera out there was my best bang for my buck They all said the t2i or t3i its a great starter camera and will profuce amazing pictures as well. 	Ive taken some stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens combo	 took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality. I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer. 	Camera is just amazing. For a begginer in the professional photography area I definetly see an ocean of difference between the t2i and point and shoot cameras. Picture quality on this t2i is stunning so many features that it will take me months to figure out how to really get the most out of this camera	Since I have switched from Nikon to Canon a lot of my review is based on comparison to Nikon.ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for. 	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus	The grain was drowning out the details	 point and shoot the pictures are great.	Picture quality	pictures looked dull 	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.	Compared to my Kodak point and shoot the pictures are great.	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.	I sent that camera back and purchased a new one from Amazon.  Same problem.  Well I have since done some research and participated in forums and found out there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photos.	Picture quality on this t2i is stunning so many features that it will take me months to figure out how to really get the most out of this camera. I have done months of research before buying this T2i 18-135mm model and according to the experts there is really not much difference betrween t2i and the t3i. for 150 bucks less I do not need a rotating screen and other minute extended features.	I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing	I took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality.	I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for. 	You would expect Auto Modes to take easy great pictures in an entry level camera most people coming from point and shoot cameras.  If you want sharp pictures you have to use P S A or M modes with the D3100.  There you can control the ISO manually or use Auto ISO and choose a lower maximum ISO setting.	some great shots for him to send to recruiters and colleges	ok some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very good	I researched several SLRs before deciding on the Canon T3i.  Im happy with my choice so far having purchased the camera first of all to take high quality photos of fairly small works of sculpture art using the Canon 60mm macro lens.  For that use the camera and lens seem to work very well.  I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip. 	They love their camera so I figured this was a good choice.  Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode so it acts like a point and shoot.  Compared to my Kodak point and shoot the pictures are great.	I took some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very good. Also i loved the guide mode when in doubt use guide. The best part was the 1080P video. I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good and my wife who is very difficult to please liked it so much that she said that next time we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100  I guess now i can finally retire my mini DV video camera.	t teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.  I have learned more using that mode in one week than from the weeks Ive spent reading books and websites.  For the money I saved on the camera I was able to purchase a telephoto lens to go with it.  Worth every penny.  I look forward to many years of great photos.	pictures they are professional looking	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for	amazing	18MP Stills	my pictures they are professional looking my family and friends say and these are just on the automatic setting	nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing	 Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash	Compared to my Kodak point and shoot the pictures are great.	You would expect Auto Modes to take easy great pictures in an entry level camera most people coming from point and shoot cameras.	I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing.	I took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality	#N/A	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture. 	Compared to my Kodak point and shoot the pictures are great.	#N/A	The pictures looked dull	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash	 there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.	Well I have since done some research and participated in forums and found out there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photos.  You would expect Auto Modes to take easy great pictures in an entry level camera most people coming from point and shoot cameras.  If you want sharp pictures you have to use P S A or M modes with the D3100.  There you can control the ISO manually or use Auto ISO and choose a lower maximum ISO setting.  Apparently this is a discussed firmware issue but Nikon claimed they hadnt heard about it when I messaged them	For a begginer in the professional photography area I definetly see an ocean of difference between the t2i and point and shoot cameras. Picture quality on this t2i is stunning	amazed by the Canon T3i quality.	  I changed the camera to P S A 	In addition if youd love to take beautiful portraits for your beloved ones Id highly recommend you to also get a Nikon 35mm f/1.8G AF-S DX Lens for Nikon Digital SLR Cameras. 	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MP	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels	the 18.1MP sensor	went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen	Compared to my Kodak point and shoot the pictures are great	Very fast auto focus on shooting	right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for	very high ISO levels in Auto Mode	Picture quality on this t2i is stunning so many features that it will take me months to figure out how to really get the most out of this camera. I have done months of	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I chang
Price	great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax	the price is very reasonable	isnt the cheapest seat	Overall a very nice car seat for the price.	 price is very reasonable	the price in amazon is very cheap	price is very reasonable.	For the money the D3100 cant be beat	its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product 	great deal for the price	reasonable price	 I could not see myself spending that much .	pricey	  the price in amazon is very cheap.	I chose the t2i over t3i because I didnt feel I would need to use the movable lcd screen and couldnt justify spending that much money on it.	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100. 	Price	Price	Great Quality for Price	A few things I dont like but not many.  The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.  Also my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly.  It isnt hard to get back on and it is nice that it pops off so it can go on either side but it is annoying when he gets it off and starts throwing it around.  Of course it would be that or his toys or whatever else he could find if he couldnt get it off.  You do need a seat protector but youd need that with any car seat.  I also dont like some of the colors but that is personal preference.Overall were really happy with this car seat.  It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.	wallet friendly	looking seriously at the Canon T2i and the Nikon D3100.  For the money the D3100 cant be beat.  What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.  I have learned more using that mode in one week than from the weeks Ive spent reading books and websites.  For the money I saved on the camera I was able to purchase a telephoto lens to go with it.	We got this car seat after being very happy with my sons First Years Via car seat.  He was too big already for the extra padding but we had him back facing in this seat for about six months and now have him forward facing.  Hes liked both ways.  I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars.  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.  Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.  I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.  Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.  Ive felt a lot of other car seats out there that feel like theyd be pretty hard to sit on and uncomfortable.A few things I dont like but not many.  The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.  Also my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly.  It isnt hard to get back on and it is nice that it pops off so it can go on either side but it is annoying when he gets it off and starts throwing it around.  Of course it would be that or his toys or whatever else he could find if he couldnt get it off.  You do need a seat protector but youd need that with any car seat.  I also dont like some of the colors but that is personal preference.Overall were really happy with this car seat.  It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.	very nice car seat for the price	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.	price is very reasonable.	price is very reasonable	great deal for the price	wallet friendly and in this economy	wallet friendly	friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much .	  It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.	PRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3i	Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup.	 not much difference betrween t2i and the t3i. for 150 bucks less I do not need a rotating screen and other minute extended features.	Cons- Price	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100. 	Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.	Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses.	a bit expensive	  Bonus- its wallet friendly	I found this to be a great deal for the price	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.	its wallet friendly	 have probably saved  200-300  i would recommend this to anybody i know who is into D	No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available.	I got it for 699  including the VR 55-200mm + camera bag with DVD	Price	money I saved on the camera I was able to purchase a telephoto lens to go with it. 	 great deal for the price.	its wallet friendly	great deal for the price.	Excellent camera though a bit expensive - worth every penny.	 best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.	reasonable price 	I got it for 699  including the VR 55-200mm + camera bag with DVD .	 	its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product 	price is very reasonable.	very	price is very reasonable	pricey	reasonable price	Price	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money	PRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price	a great deal for the pric	I found this to be a great deal for the price	its wallet friendly	I found this to be a great deal for the price.	is is a great car seat. I did a lot of research on safety price etc. before buying this one.  I actually bought two one for my car and one for my husbands car.  We were very pleased with it	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable	price is very reasonable.	wallet friendly	isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.	price is very reasonable	a bit expensive 	you dont want to spend more money on lenses	reasonable price 	a great deal for the price	I feel like you get what you pay for	Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product 	It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.	I found this to be a great deal for the price	Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product 	It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.	  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.	Overall a very nice car seat for the price.	pricey	Nikon suggests certain memory cards that they certified to use with this camera.  Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or more	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much . But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing.	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much 	 If you see the video when shopping for a car seat I found this to be a great deal for the price	its wallet friendly	  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.	Overall a very nice car seat for the price. This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usuall	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100	For the money the D3100 cant be beat.  What sold me was the guide mode.	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this camera	Price	For the money the D3100 cant be beat	 Price	Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.	Save yourself the headache of working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body.	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 10	usually 	situation where you dont want to change lenses	Since initially posting	hough a bit expensive	worthy of purchase 	199.99	169.9	24119.9	I could not see myself spending that much .	24799	If your looking for a great Camera look no further you have found it  If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100	24749	This is my first DSLR and couldnt be more happier with this Purchase. Its been two weeks since i brought this camera from Bestbuy since it was out of stock at Amazon and also with 10	24549	#N/A	I upgraded from a Canon 20D to this specific model after several hours of navigating product reviews and I dont regret it the other contenders were the T3i and T3 close  range and after careful though on ISO performance MPs price and features I decided that this model offered me the best balance. 	199.99	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.	Ive purchased SnugRides in the past but this is the first one to have a serious lack of adequate padding.  Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEAT	169.9	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.	Price	a bit expensive	its wallet friendly	price is very reasonable	Great Quality for Price	24799	24749	24549	24199.99	Bonus- its wallet friendly	 I could not see myself spending that much 	s- its wallet friendly 	24169.9	the price is very reasonable.	24119.9	y nice car seat for the price	Price	Price	24749	24549	24799	24199.99	For the money the D3100 cant be beat.	24169.9	24119.9	great deal for the price. 	spending that much 	price is very reasonable.	reasonable.	its wallet friendly	 price is very reasonable.	This is a great option for those	Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEAT	 Price	Price	Although pricey	PRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3i	digital photography at a reasonable price	I could not see myself spending that much 	Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product 	 its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product 	the price is very reasonable.	eat I found this to be a great deal for the price. 	Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEAT	t is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.	Overall a very nice car seat for the price	  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.	price is very reasonable.	Canon EOS Rebel T2i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-inch LCD and and EF-S ... by Canon	I have done months of research before buying this T2i 18-135mm model and according to the experts there is really not much difference betrween t2i and the t3i. for 150 bucks less I do not need a rotating screen and other minute extended features.	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this camera	If your looking for a great Camera look no further you have found it  If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.	Canon EOS Rebel T3i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-Inch Clear View Vari-A... by Canon	#N/A	#N/A	This product	The First Years True Fit Recline Convertible Car Seat City Chic by The First Years	Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product 	Safety 1st Complete Air 65 Protect Convertible Car Seat Silver Leaf by Dorel	Graco SnugRide 30 Infant Car Seat Metropolis by Graco	Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product 	price is very reasonable.	the price is very reasonable.	189.99 169.9	24199.99	139.99 119.9	  the price in amazon is very cheap. I got it for 699  including the VR 55-200mm + camera bag with DVD .  i also used the transcend 32 gb class 10 from amazon for 50 work without any problems . also bought battery at amazon for 27  EN EL 14   way way  amazing purchase. i have probably saved  200-300  i would recommend this to anybody i know who is into DSLR.	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much .	I found this to be a great deal for the price.	 Overall a very nice car seat for the price. 	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much .	- Price	ts wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product 	#N/A	#N/A	Price	 Price	Great value for the price	#N/A	  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.	24799	24749	24549	the price is very reasonable.	24199.99	24169.9	24119.9	  I researched for several weeks looking seriously at the Canon T2i and the Nikon D3100.  	Bonus- its wallet friendly	price is very reasonable.	#N/A	#N/A	#N/A	For ease of use IQ form factor it wont weigh me down etc. I feel as if the D3100 was a great purchase. Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup.	And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens	Cons- Price	  Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product 	799.99 749.0	 the price is very reasonable.	its wallet friendly	t is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.	 its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product 	wallet friendly	199.99	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.	24799	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this camera	though a bit expensive	24549	Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price	I could not see myself spending that much 	wallet friendly	price is very reasonable.	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lens	Decided to get t2i over t3i. . .and happy I did January 15 2012	Canon EOS Rebel T3i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-Inch Clear View Vari-Angle LCD and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS Lens	Price	f you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.	PRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3i	Cons- Price	Im glad to have this camera it has everything comparable to canon t2  1080p movie 14.2 mp 502g light weight. 3 inch screen . i dont really mind the 230k dots screen its very bright and clear anyways compare to 900+ dots  .  the price in amazon is very cheap. I got it for 699  including the VR 55-200mm + camera bag with DVD .	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.	 Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price 	its wallet friendly	24199.99	24169.9	24119.9	 If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.	  It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product 	  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.	 well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much .	Bonus- its wallet friendly	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much . But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing. My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.	Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product 	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3i	 Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup.	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.	PRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3i	 its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product 	Bonus- its wallet friendly	It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.	  Bonus- its wallet friendly	price is very reasonable.	Price	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.	the price in amazon is very cheap	  For the money the D3100 cant be beat.	its wallet friendly a	I found this to be a great deal for the price.	Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product 	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well. Overall a very nice car seat for the price.	No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.  I am going to order another one of these for my husbands car.  It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product 	I could not see myself spending that much 	Nikon D3100 16.2MP CMOS Digital SLR Camera with 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 AF-S DX VR Nikkor Zoom Lens	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras	24799	24549	the price in amazon is very cheap	24749	The First Years True Fit Recline Convertible Car Seat City Chic by The First Years	24119.9	very nice car seat for the price	Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.	Cons- Price	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep	24549	24749	24799	 Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much .	.  This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.	24199.99	  Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product 	24169.9	24119.9	This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.	great deal for the price	wallet friendly	price is very reasonable.	24169.9	wallet friendly	199.99	price is very reasonable.	price is very reasonable.	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.	we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.	Im glad to have this camera it has everything comparable to canon t2  1080p movie 14.2 mp 502g light weight. 3 inch screen . i dont really mind the 230k dots screen its very bright and clear anyways compare to 900+ dots  .  the price in amazon is very cheap.
Durable	heavy very durable	f is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well.	 is nice and heavy very durable	well constructed and pretty comfy	nice and heavy very durable	ice and heavy very durable	 holds a child up to 65lbs	seat will be durable enough to withstand constant use through 2 children
Quality	very nice fabric thats soft to the touch	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric	material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby	Catch a lot of stuff under the padding	The chair is excellent quality	really well constructed and pretty comfy	seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it	it does a good job of taking pictures	3.7 fps	Takes good quality of videos.	I took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality. 	The quality is amazing	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Additionally with the side impact shaping its a very tight space to use the light blue head rests shown in the listing picture.  I havent tested it out yet but just from the appearance I can tell its not going to work.Ive purchased SnugRides in the past but this is the first one to have a serious lack of adequate padding.  Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEAT	Excellent Product came within 2 business days even though I did standard shipping. Fit my newborns head with the extra cushion that came with it.  Loved the colors as well. Works perfectly with the Snap N Go stroller piece.	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. I highly recommend this it item.	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Overall we feel both our children are safe and would recommend this for long term use to friends and family members. We are contemplating buying two more so we have matching seats in both vehicles. They are worth every penny.	the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for	Excellent camera though a bit expensive - worth every penny.	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MP	Excellent Beginners DSLR	Excellent Beginners DSLR	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.	we dont need to compromise on quality or style	not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull 	 Low resolution of LCD screen	great in low lighting settings.	high quality photos of fairly small works of sculpture art	Some pictures came out blue-ish.	I changed the camera to P S A 	he bottom line is that images from the D3100 are indistinguishable from the more expensive models. 	snap off the cup holder pretty quickly.  It isnt hard to get back on and it is nice that it pops off so it can go on either side but it is annoying when he gets it off and starts throwing it around. 	 chair is excellent quality	17in. wide infant car seat will do.	we dont need to compromise on quality or style.	well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.	the biggest is this darn sun visor	 When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes	very durable	product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat	 material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come off	T3i greater then nikon 5100	large Jpeg P-mode Quick AF	akes good quality of videos	e chair is excellent quality.	we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.	 took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality. I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer. The quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it. I also took a picture of a cherry tree that was about 30 yards away and then opened it up in Photoshop zoomed in and could see cherries that I could not even see with my eyes from the spot where I took the picture. I can not wait to get Canon 15-85mm f/3.5-5.6 EF-S Zoom Lens and than I will be in some serious business.	  Im happy with my choice so far having purchased the camera first of all to take high quality photos of fairly small works of sculpture art using the Canon 60mm macro lens.  For that use the camera and lens seem to work very well.	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A 	 Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.	. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. 	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A 	I took some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very good. Also i loved the guide mode when in doubt use guide. The best part was the 1080P video. I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good and my wife who is very difficult to please liked it so much that she said that next time we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100  I guess now i can finally retire my mini DV video camera.	The chair is excellent quality.	It is a well made and designed car seat	 is nice and heavy very durable	works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or style	#N/A	#N/A	#N/A	 noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping fo	 This body is rock solid and worthy of purchase for ANY and ALL people entering or needing an advanced DSLR camera. 	ne disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy. 	while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.	While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding	60fps	I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer	I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing.	It is a well made and designed car seat	 Picture quality on this t2i is stunning so many features that it will take me months to figure out how to really get the most out of this camera.	I upgraded from nikon D50 to this. So of course the pictures are much much better	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.	 grain/dull/no detailed photos.	If you want sharp pictures you have to use P S A or M modes with the D3100.  There you can control the ISO manually or use Auto ISO and choose a lower maximum ISO setting.	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iCons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light painting	It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.	 Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day	 I also took a picture of a cherry tree that was about 30 yards away and then opened it up in Photoshop zoomed in and could see cherries that I could not even see with my eyes from the spot where I took the picture	The image sizes of the CMOS sensor allow me great latitude in adjusting and tweaking my RAW images anytime I wish to be creative.	  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. 	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much . But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing. My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.	Air 65 car seat that we have purchased so we could have one in each car.  I have a baby on the way and know the seat will be durable enough to withstand constant use through 2 children   Of course safety is our main concern but this seat is also stylish 	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.	. It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels.	- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3i	I had been taking pictures with my roommates Canon EOS t2i for months and then I decided to get my own entry-level DSLR. Ive compared Canon EOS t2i with Nikon D3100 and finally I picked D3100. I am very happy about the decision.	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.	 the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.	  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.	rated 	nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing	Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day.	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A 	3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting	3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra	  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge 	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.	The quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it.	The chair is excellent quality.	#N/A	T2i is the Best Entry Level DSLR	enter. It fit fine and snug as can be. What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not bl	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick. One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.	The quality is amazing
Sturdiness	This body is rock solid 	65lbs
Ease Of Use	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.	all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels natural	simple menu. The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not.	he camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.  The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode. I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.  The view finder is very clear and has all basic settings info on the bottom border.	solid and is easy to hold	best balance	easy to understand	Its extremely mobile	The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.	 LOVE this camera. Its extremely mobile. I can just flip open my tripod lock and GO 	simple menu	easly instaled it in the car	VERY easy to install base in car. 	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit	For ease of use IQ form factor it wont weigh me down etc. I feel as if the D3100 was a great purchase.	the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menu	What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots	YOU CANT GO WRONG WITH THIS CAMERA   It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.  It is very user Friendly and Fun to use.	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.	Easy to operate	user-friendly controls	Starting off on full auto moving through the different pre-determined settings sports portrait landscape etc and the into the manual modes	  I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.  The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode	Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode so it acts like a point and shoot	i loved the guide mode when in doubt use guide	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.  The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode. I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.  The view finder is very clear and has all basic settings info on the bottom border.  The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRs.	I looked at many items before pulling the trigger on the Canon T3i. I went to Best buy and tested out the Canon T2i the Nikon D5100 the Canon 60D and the Nikon D7000. After testing out all the products I came to the decision that the only cameras I liked that felt good in my hand were the Canon T2i Nikon D5100 and the Can T3i. I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal.	Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup.	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.	Ease of use	#N/A	#N/A	the D3100 is the easier to use compared to the D5100 that had to relinquish four buttons to make room for the swivel screen of the D5100	Well I have since done some research and participated in forums and found out there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photos.  You would expect Auto Modes to take easy great pictures in an entry level camera most people coming from point and shoot cameras.  If you want sharp pictures you have to use P S A or M modes with the D3100.  There you can control the ISO manually or use Auto ISO and choose a lower maximum ISO setting.  Apparently this is a discussed firmware issue but Nikon claimed they hadnt heard about it when I messaged them	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult	It is so easy to use and install 	easy to get baby in and out of	buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well	Ease of use	  The view finder is very clear and has all basic settings info on the bottom border.  The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRs. Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger with a swing-out plug.  This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menu. The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not. I am a person to read through and learn the various features the camera has to offer. I am impressed with the lens that comes with the camera for the wide angle aspect of it due to a lot of places I shoot pictures there are a lot of people and requires me to get close to get the shot I want	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.	trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses	  Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode so it acts like a point and shoot	This is my first DSLR 	ighly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a	about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens	 Best Entry Level DSLR	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture	T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode	right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for	flip out LCD screen	recommend this for long term use	car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of	the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position	 It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.	It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.	As a first time Digital SLR buyer and user I love this camera and would highly recommend it to others.  We took about 300 pictures at a Thanksgiving get together and a few other people tried the camera out and were impressed as well.I am not a professional so please dont take my opinion as someone acting as an authority on this subject but as a first time user I am happy and hope my review will help any other first time digital camera fans out there.  Thanks.	  It is so easy to use and install 
Safety	 very comfortable and appears to be very safe	The seat is gigantic	It holds the girls very secure	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure	protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her	it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk	buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use	side crash tested	it has the highest safety rating	car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.	but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk	It is side crash tested 	I chose it because it has the highest safety rating	but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.	 safety w	highest safety rating	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.	I did a lot of research on safety price etc. before buying this on	I chose it because it has the highest safety rating.	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.  Some seats seemed too bulky and I know my daughter would be a sweaty mess in those styles.  This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped in.  The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well.  This is the second Safety 1st complete Air 65 car seat that we have purchased so we could have one in each car.  I have a baby on the way and know the seat will be durable enough to withstand constant use through 2 children   Of course safety is our main concern but this seat is also stylish 	The car seat was delivered one day after I ordered it online. Which was outstanding. I took it out of the box and my 2 year old became giddy with excitement. Normally he literally fights and struggles when it is time to get into the the car but not this time. I love this chair  My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure. I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra. As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once.	appears to be very safe	Im sure this is safe enough	it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.	Im confident that he is safe and secure	the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well.	side crash tested and the base is adjustable	as the highest safety rating	side crash tested	we feel both our children are safe	highest safety rating	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.	the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small. 	it protects my little girl 	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.	when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level.	  I chose it because it has the highest safety rating	Overall we feel both our children are safe and would recommend this for long term use to friends and family members	I chose it because it has the highest safety rating.	highest safety rating	 chose it because it has the highest safety rating	Overall we feel both our children are safe and would recommend this for long term use to friends and family members. We are contemplating buying two more so we have matching seats in both vehicles. They are worth every penny	Also my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around	highest safety rating.	highest safety rating.	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.	 chose it because it has the highest safety rating.	t is side crash tested 	Rear facing is the safest way for small children to travel when in a car	 highest safety rating. 	safety 	  Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around. 	It is side crash tested 	side crash tested	our snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level	absolutely NO padding.	easly instaled it in the car.	highest safety rating.	It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it	safety 	side crash tested 	product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat.	it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her.	Im confident that he is safe and secure. 	appears to be very safe	I chose it because it has the highest safety rating	Overall we feel both our children are safe	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her.	appears to be very safe	Im confident that he is safe and secure.	 highest safety rating.	side crash tested 	 because they did not fit backward	Other than the issues in rear facing position this is a terrific seat.	 other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.	 	he biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh.	We are using this as a rear facing seat in our Chevy Malibu and it fits just fine. Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.	This is the second Safety 1st complete Air 65 car seat that we have purchased so we could have one in each car.	doesnt move around.	safety was my number one priority	highest safety rating	This is the second Safety 1st complete Air 65 car seat that we have purchased so we could have one in each car. 	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around	20	 It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable	holds the girls very secure	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.	 Im confident that he is safe 	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around	safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.	highest safety rating	highest safety rating	he is safe and secure	 It is side crash tested	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.	I chose it because it has the highest safety rating	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.	.  I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars.  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.  Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.	  I chose it because it has the highest safety rating.	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.	 One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.	Im sure this is safe enough	I chose it because it has the highest safety rating	it protects my little girl	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.	Currently the product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat.  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.	 it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it. 	However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.	it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.	It is side crash tested 	it has the highest safety rating.	 we feel both our children are safe	appears to be very safe	safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat	It holds the girls very secure and they love them.	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.	Im confident that he is safe and secure.	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around	but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around	highest safety rating	Im sure this is safe	appears to be very safe	the highest safety rating	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.	I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient	I purchased this seat because it was rated 	it has the highest safety rating	 My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.	It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels.	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.	It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels.	I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.	  Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.	  Also my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickl	We are using this as a rear facing seat in our Chevy Malibu and it fits just fine. Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.	It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. I highly recommend this it item.	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.	 Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.	 Im sure this is safe enough but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient.	Normally he literally fights and struggles when it is time to get into the the car but not this time. I love this chair  My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.	I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit.  It is so high in fact that my 3 1/2 year old would still be able to be rear facing in this seat	I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit.  It is so high in fact that my 3 1/2 year old would still be able to be rear facing in this seat	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.  I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.  Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.	 I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it. Im just thinking how happy she will be when she gets turned around in a few months. This will even work for newborns. if I had known that I would have gotten this a long time ago.	 Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. 	 but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient.	 rated 	 its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.  I also find it really easy to install	highest safety rating	confident that he is safe	ice and heavy very durable	 this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes	 NO padding. 	  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.	comfortable and Im confident that he is safe	it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for 
Ease To Use	 For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use
Mobility	Its extremely mobile	 Its extremely mobile.
Ram	Ships from	Ships from	Ships from	Ships from
Weight	Light weight	not very heavy.	 Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.	Relatively light	d is not very heavy	heavy enough	The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLR	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens	Relatively light	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.	I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit.	ight weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. 	  I love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy.  It looks like it should be	this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera.	Relatively light	mparisons I decided on this cam	D3100 14.2MP Digital SLR Camera with 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 AF-S DX VR Nikkor Zoom Lens Camera	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.	Relatively light	light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day	Light weight	Relatively light	Relatively light	Light weight great body design	quite light 	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti	Currently the product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat.  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.	and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well.	 Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.	but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day. 	however	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips	 love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy.  It looks like it should be but does not feel like it is.  It appears to be a very sturdy camera.	- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards	The seat is gigantic.	heavy 	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.	Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.	. Light weight great body design	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips	Light weight great body design	 Light weight great body design	light weight	Relatively light	Light weight great body design.	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips	Light weight great body design.	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.	elatively light 	 Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.	 Light weight great body design. 	 Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens	form factor it wont weigh me down	I love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy.  It looks like it should be but does not feel like it is.  It appears to be a very sturdy camera.	Relatively light	 Light weight great body design	#N/A	#N/A	#N/A	It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti.	 I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. 	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.	heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day	Light weight great body design	#N/A	elatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.	Light weight great body design	 Relatively light	Relatively light 	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens	 Light weight great body design. 	Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day.	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.	Nikon D3100 16.2MP CMOS Digital SLR Camera with 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 AF-S DX VR Nikkor Zoom Lens	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.	about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens	Very bulky.	light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.	2 pounds with lens
Storage	I would recommend to get a high speed memory card. The pictures at full 18MP take a lot of memory. Better get some means of decent storage space 750-1TB hardrive will do	750-1TB hardrive will do
Comfortable	 My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.	This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him. I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.	 it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it. Im just thinking how happy she will be when she gets turned around in a few months. This will even work for newborns. if I had known that I would have gotten this a long time ago.	Normally he literally fights and struggles when it is time to get into the the car but not this time. I love this chair  My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.	5.0 out of 5 stars 	fits comfortably	comfortable 	 comfortable	Comfortable	comfert	very comfortable for a little baby	  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy. 	its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddler	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin.	so much room	  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy	 roomier	 so comfortable	 it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.	 it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.	 trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base.	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.	son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. 	Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son	 Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin.	 its very comfortable and appears to be very safe	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.	For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.  Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.  I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.  Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son	 soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby	 True Fit convertable car seat is amazing	well constructed and pretty comfy
Reviews	rated 	0	highest safety rating	rated 
Battery	This is my first time buying a Digital SLR.  I have mainly used point and shoot cameras in the past and have always had fun taking pictures.  I wanted to start digital photography as a hobby so I decided to buy a nicer camera.  After reading many reviews and comparisons I decided on this camera as it is the update to the Nikon D3000 that a friend of mine has.  They love their camera so I figured this was a good choice.  Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode so it acts like a point and shoot.  Compared to my Kodak point and shoot the pictures are great.  I love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy.  It looks like it should be but does not feel like it is.  It appears to be a very sturdy camera.	As a first time Digital SLR buyer and user I love this camera and would highly recommend it to others.  We took about 300 pictures at a Thanksgiving get together and a few other people tried the camera out and were impressed as well.	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.	Battery life is not too great	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.	Battery life seems to be very good	Battery life is not too great. 	y used point and shoot cameras in the past and have always had fun taking pictures.  I wanted to start digital photography as a hobb	 Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.	This camera is very tight on power consumption and has extreme accuracy when you set it for pinpoint focusing as I do for model and portrait photography work.	Battery life	attery life is not too great.	Battery life seems to be very good 	Battery life seems to be very good - longer 	 Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.	Battery life seems to be very good	Battery life is not too great	 Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.	Battery life is not too great.	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for 	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. T	 Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.	Battery life seems to be very good	 Battery life is not too great. 	Battery life is not too great	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. 	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger with a swing-out plug.	 Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.	 Battery life is not too great.	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.	Battery life is not too great.	 Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.	Battery life is not too great	. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday	. Battery life is not too great
#N/A	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow.	No autofocus when zooming while taking video	I conducted countless hours of research on Canons Nikons and even Sonys.  I was used to using point-and-shoots and small flip style video cameras to make my videos.  I looked into DSLRs and really wanted a canon.	I can not believe the quality and sound you would have thought I used a real video camera and not one from a camera	 I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good and my wife who is very difficult to please liked it so much that she said that next time we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100  I guess now i can finally retire my mini DV video camera.	quick delivery	delivered one day after I ordered it online. 	Amazon prime helped to get the delivery in a very shortest period which was not imaginable	Battery life is not too great.	Battery life is not too great.	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.	. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.	Eventhough i got this for a normal price i love this camera like anything. Being a beginner in photographyi took much time to decide on models between T2iT3i and 60D. Atlast i bought T3i and i am very much satisfied with the product.	Picture quality on this t2i is stunning	Compared to my Kodak point and shoot the pictures are great.	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.	Built-in flash is not so great. 	difficult to install in car	size is pretty big	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position	17in. wide infant car seat will do	he biggest is this darn sun visor	he middle section is made of mesh	Yes it is a big car seat	It is a big seat especially rear facing	you dont want to spend more money on lenses. 	Built-in flash is not so great	I did alot of research I	Great value for the price	very sturdy camera.	Material is easy to clean 	 VERY easy to install base in car.	wallet friendly	well constructed and pretty comfy	If your looking for a great Camera look no further you have found it  	 Relatively light 	was amazed by the Canon T3i quality	ts an excellent camera for ANY level of photographer -	conducted countless hours of research on Canons Nikons and even Sonys.	Seriously disappointed with this carseat	I had almost convinced myself of the T2i. I resisted and ended up waiting to purchase the T3i which was the best decision I made	I am a person to research and research again. . .with that being said when I wanted to get a DSLR camera I asked a good 10 friends of mine which camera out there was my best bang for my buck They all said the t2i or t3i its a great starter camera and will profuce amazing pictures as well.	Ive compared Canon EOS t2i with Nikon D3100 and finally I picked D3100.	Cons If any 	Ive compared Canon EOS t2i with Nikon D3100 and finally I picked D3100.	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.	Compared to my Kodak point and shoot the pictures are great.	I have mainly used point and shoot cameras in the past and have always had fun taking pictures.	 The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.	Why	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.	Built-in flash is not so great.	 Built-in flash is not so great	Built-in flash is not so great	I did a lot of research going into the purchase.	 No autofocus when zooming while taking video	 I could not see myself spending that much .	standard	standard	helpful	helpful	standard	helpful	November	standard	period	helpful	customers	interesting	continuous	SLR	penny	standard	standard	compared	Especially	No audio recording level adjust	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input	quality and sound	1080p HD	1080p
General	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.	I got it for 699  including the VR 55-200mm + camera bag with DVD	Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras	Excellent Beginners DSLR	T3i greater then nikon 5100
Value	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much . But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.	the price is very reasonable	It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.	Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product 	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.  I conducted countless hours of research on Canons Nikons and even Sonys.  I was used to using point-and-shoots and small flip style video cameras to make my videos.  I looked into DSLRs and really wanted a canon.  YOU CANT GO WRONG WITH THIS CAMERA   It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.  It is very user Friendly and Fun to use.	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.	I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.	For the money the D3100 cant be beat.	save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens	Excellent camera though a bit expensive - worth every penny.	They are worth every penny.	we dont need to compromise on quality or style.	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.	Overall a very nice car seat for the price.	For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.	It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am sure the Nikon D5100 is a spectacular camera and it sports a larder image sensor than the Canon. I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.	lower than T2i 	bottom line is that images from the D3100 are indistinguishable from the more expensive models	heck of a good deal	For the money the D3100 cant be beat.	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses.	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.	 I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.	For the money the D3100 cant be beat.	Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product 	It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.	  Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEAT	I had been taking pictures with my roommates Canon EOS t2i for months and then I decided to get my own entry-level DSLR. Ive compared Canon EOS t2i with Nikon D3100 and finally I picked D3100. I am very happy about the decision.	The macro features are also on par with its more advanced and WAY higher priced big brothers to this camera	great deal for the price. I understand each car seat has to meet standards but I have been please with this one and my husband just purchased an extra one to have in his 06Nissan Frontier	Love this car seat   After extensive research and practically being settled on the Britax Advocate I feel like you get what you pay for	Bonus- its wallet friendly	dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable	I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.	ts wallet friendly	It isnt the cheapest seat out there	Ive purchased SnugRides in the past but this is the first one to have a serious lack of adequate padding.  Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEAT
Buttons	Entry Level DSLR	T2i is FAST	Very fast auto	uttons are spread evenly
Sturdy	ery sturdy 
Upgrade	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i	 I am upgrading from a Canon XSI	I upgraded from nikon D50 to this. So of course the pictures are much much better.	#N/A	#N/A	#N/A	#N/A	#N/A	#N/A	#N/A	#N/A	#N/A	#N/A	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.
LCD Screen	 Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.	2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal. 	I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100. 	flip out LCD screen	 LCD screen	Low resolution of LCD screen	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.	articulating LCD screen	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels	articulating LCD screen	I resisted and ended up waiting to purchase the T3i which was the best decision I made. At a glance the camera has a good feel to it and overall has the same features as the T2i. The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menu	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen 	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen	articulating LCD screen	 Low resolution of LCD screen.	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen	Low resolution of LCD screen	Low resolution of LCD screen. 	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels.	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. 	 Low resolution of LCD screen	#N/A	#N/A	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.	I chose the t2i over t3i because I didnt feel I would need to use the movable lcd screen and couldnt justify spending that much money on it.	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take	I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.  The view finder is very clear and has all basic settings info on the bottom border.	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.	flip around screen	Low resolution of LCD screen	I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.	Low resolution of LCD screen.	T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen	Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.	 I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menu	 articulating LCD screen.	the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen	the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take.	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. 	articulating LCD screen	No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.	I came to the decision that the only cameras I liked that felt good in my hand were the Canon T2i Nikon D5100 and the Can T3i. I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal.	0
Built In Flash	Built-in flash is not so great	uilt-in flash is not so grea	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.	Built-in flash is not so great	hen taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade	Built-in flash is not so great. Al
Video Quality	 Takes good quality of videos.	The best part was the 1080P video. I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good and my wife who is very difficult to please liked it so much that she said that next time we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100	Takes good quality of videos.	we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100	 The best part was the 1080P video.	the video truly being 1080p	Video I have taken alot for Football and I can not believe the quality and sound you would have thought I used a real video camera and not one from a camera	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING	Oh and the video.....Its 1080p HD	The best part was the 1080P video. I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good	 The best part was the 1080P video. I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good and my wife who is very difficult to please liked it so much that she said that next time we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100	Takes good quality of videos.	lets talk Video I have taken alot for Football and I can not believe the quality and sound you would have thought I used a real video camera and not one from a camera	Takes good quality of videos.	The best part was the 1080P video. I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good and my wife who is very difficult to please liked it so much that she said that next time we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100  I guess now i can finally retire my mini DV video camera	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras	Oh and the video.....Its 1080p HD nothing more needs to be said. 	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menu. The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not. I am a person to read through and learn the various features the camera has to offer. I am impressed with the lens that comes with the camera for the wide angle aspect of it due to a lot of places I shoot pictures there are a lot of people and requires me to get close to get the shot I want	3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.	60fps HD Recording	1080p HD	3.7 max burst rate not very fast at all	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture	went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen
Start Up Speed	Fast start up speed	Fast start up speed	Fast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 second	Fast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 second	Fast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 second
Shutter Speed	  The T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to.  It makes a huge difference knowing you can press the shutter and the camera will instantly take a picture	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.	What sold me was the guide mode	  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to.  It makes a huge difference knowing you can press the shutter and the camera will instantly take a picture.  The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.	3.7 max burst rate not very fast at all	Slower than T2i 	Minimal shutter lag	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  Why	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video	The T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to.  It makes a huge difference knowing you can press the shutter and the camera will instantly take a picture.  The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.	rs the 3.7 fps its supposed to.  It makes a huge difference knowing you can press the shutter and
HD Video	.Its 1080p H	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion 	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iCons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light painting	60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion 	 The best part was the 1080P video. I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good and my wife who is very difficult to please liked it so much that she said that next time we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100	ull-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera
Customer Service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge 	  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge 	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge 	I purchased this seat because it was rated 	They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge 	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers 	customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised.	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers 	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge 	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge 	they sent me a new cover 	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge	 companies who please their customers 	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge 	Both were delivered super fast and in perfect condition.	came within 2 business days even though I did standard shipping.	The car seat was delivered one day after I ordered it online.	customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover	They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.	  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge 	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover	 they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge	After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly	free of charge	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers 	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge 	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers 	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge 	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge 	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge 	they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers 	customer service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge	  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge 	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge 	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level.	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge 	  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  	 Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers 	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge 	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. 	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick. One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers 	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge 	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge 	customer service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge 	Canon service is apparently better than nikon	ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.
Installation	extremely difficult to install it rear facing	pretty easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy	The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right	Easy to install	easly instaled it in the car	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes.	VERY easy to install base in car	easy to install	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow	Install was exteremly easy	really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely	a little difficult to install	It is so easy to use and install	The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well.	My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing.	They were pretty easy to install	The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right	Easy to install via my hubby	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. 	Easy to install	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow remember now I am the grandma and over 50 so please keep it simple   I did end up having my son install it for me	 easly instaled it in the car.	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely	this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions	it was easy	They are easy to install especially as compared to the graco one we bought first.	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow remember now I am the grandma and over 50 so please keep it simple   I did end up having my son install it for me. 	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick. 	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.	VERY easy to install base in car	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.	The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well.	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes.	Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in.	Rear facing is the safest way for small children to travel when in a car.  After purchasing this seat we took it for a test drive literally with the baby in it.  He seemed very comfortable in it and I liked that the extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.  I love the no rethread harness and although it took me a bit to figure out how to work it it is still fairly simple and much preferrable over the rethread type.Now for the cons.  The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car. I currently live in Japan where my hubby is currently stationed with the USMC.  We drive a large van similar to the old Chevy Astro van.  This seat would onlt fit in the 2nd row in the middle seating position so that it came up almost through the 2 front seats.  I doubt this seat would fit into any other position in any car.  My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing. Between my 3 kids Ive been through about 6 different convertible car seats in the past 8 years and this one was by far the most difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt.  At one point or another Ive had to install all of my previous car seats rear facing with the vehicle belt.  The instructions say to lift the seat pad when threading the belt through which I did but then once the seat was installed I couldnt get the pad back down over the seat where it was against the seat back of the actual vehicle seat.  So I had to uninstall it and reinstall it with the pad in its proper place making it very difficult to do.	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes.	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.  light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.	It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.	 VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.	fit really well in all cars.	Easy to install	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow remember now I am the grandma and over 50 so please keep it simple 	install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.	 but it was easy if you read the instructions.	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes	VERY easy to install base in car	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions. 	easly instaled i	They were pretty easy to install 	VERY easy to install base 	Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. 	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.	 a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick	easy to install base i	out 7 minutes	little difficult to install but you get th	set this up in about 7 minutes	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions	It is so easy to use and install	VERY easy to install base in car	If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.	its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely. 	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars.	Easy to install	VERY easy to install base in car.	Easy to install via my hubby	install	trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever.	little difficult to install	set this up i	It is so easy to use and install 	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.	Easy to install	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.	Easy to install 	s easy if you read the instructions. 	 little difficult to install 	 so easy to use and install 	 it was a little tricky to get it in	instructions were simple 	VERY easy to install base in car	  The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well. 	  The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well.	It is so easy to use and install 	  Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow 	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.	My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes	Easy to install	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow	Install was exteremly easy	I opened the box and easly instaled it in the car	but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever.	The instructions say to lift the seat pad when threading the belt through which I did but then once the seat was installed I couldnt get the pad back down over the seat where it was against the seat back of the actual vehicle seat.  So I had to uninstall it and reinstall it with the pad in its proper place making it very difficult to do.	The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as wel	VERY easy to install base in car	as difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely	little difficult to instal	  Install was exteremly easy	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first	Easy to install	VERY easy to install base in car.	VERY easy to install base in car	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes	 Easy to install 	My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing.	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions	It is so easy to use and install	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes.	Easy to install	VERY easy to install base in car	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions	Easy to install	VERY easy to install base in car	 Easy to install 	VERY easy to install base in car	difficult to install	They are easy to install especially as compared to the graco one we bought first	easly instaled it in the car	trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely 	difficult to install	 VERY easy to install	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars	 VERY easy to install base in car	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes.	Easy to install via my hubby 	  My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing. 	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions. 	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.	.  I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars.  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.  Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.  Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.  Ive felt a lot of other car seats out there that feel like theyd be pretty hard to sit on and uncomfortable.	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow remember now I am the grandma and over 50 so please keep it simple   I did end up having my son install it for me.	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.	 Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.	They were pretty easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats. 	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.	 I have a 2003 Maxima which has a slight bump in the middle	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.	 easly instaled it in the car	#N/A	VERY easy to install base in car	 VERY easy to install base in car	Easy to install	Easy to install	really easy to install	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.	easly instaled it in the car	Easy to install	 VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.	Easy to install	Easy to install	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.	  My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing. Between my 3 kids Ive been through about 6 different convertible car seats in the past 8 years and this one was by far the most difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt.  At one point or another Ive had to install all of my previous car seats rear facing with the vehicle belt.  The instructions say to lift the seat pad when threading the belt through which I did but then once the seat was installed I couldnt get the pad back down over the seat where it was against the seat back of the actual vehicle seat.  So I had to uninstall it and reinstall it with the pad in its proper place making it very difficult to do.	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.	#N/A	The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions. I have a 2003 Maxima which has a slight bump in the middle	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.	It is so easy to use and install 	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. 	Easy to install via my hubby	The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.	The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well	VERY easy to install base in car.	Easy to install	easly instaled	from when I opened the box and easly instaled it in the car	VERY easy to install base in car	VERY easy to install base in car	#N/A	#N/A	#N/A	#N/A	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions	Easy to install	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes	easly instaled it in the car.	Easy to install via my hubby	VERY easy to install base in car	It is so easy to use and install	but it was easy if you read the instructions.	  It is so easy to use and install 	 so easy to use and install	VERY easy to install base in car. 	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.	 instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right	My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing.	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level.	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.	It is so easy to use and install	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.	its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely	set this up in about 7 minutes	If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet	easly instaled it in the car	side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels	VERY easy to install base in car	it was easy if you read the instructions	a little difficult to install 	Easy to install	easly instaled it	Easy to install 	VERY easy to install base in car	ros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.  light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.	 I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.	It is so easy to use and install 	Easy to instal	difficult to install it rear facing	VERY easy to install base in car.	VERY easy to install base in car.	  It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product 	Big enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable straps	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable straps	My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.	You do need a seat protector but youd need that with any car seat.  I also dont like some of the colors but that is personal preference.	 set this up in about 7 minutes.	I have a 2003 Maxima which has a slight bump in the middle	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes.	 it was easy if you read the instructions.	VERY easy to install base in car	 set this up in about 7 minut	 easly instaled it in the car.	 I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions	It is so easy to use and install 	  Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever.	pretty easy to install	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives.	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.	  I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.	Install was exteremly easy	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes.	easly instaled it in the car.	My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing	VERY easy to install base in car.	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes	 VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.	  It is so easy to use and install 	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable straps	  Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars.	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra.	They were pretty easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats.	Between my 3 kids Ive been through about 6 different convertible car seats in the past 8 years and this one was by far the most difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt.  At one point or another Ive had to install all of my previous car seats rear facing with the vehicle belt.  The instructions say to lift the seat pad when threading the belt through which I did but then once the seat was installed I couldnt get the pad back down over the seat where it was against the seat back of the actual vehicle seat.  So I had to uninstall it and reinstall it with the pad in its proper place making it very difficult to do.	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.	 VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.	 But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing. My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars. Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. 	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.	dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. 	  Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars. Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. All I can say is this was a great purchase for our family.	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.	difficult to install in car	 set this up in about 7 minutes	 Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.	  It is so easy to use and install	easly instaled it in the car	Easy to install	cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box	 read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions. I have a 2003 Maxima which has a slig	It is so easy to use and install 	es its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick. One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars.	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the s	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes.	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars.	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.	so easy to use and install	Easy to install	  The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well. 	The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.	VERY easy to install base in car.	They are easy to install especially as compared to the graco one we bought first. The no rethread harness is awesome. The seat was comfortable looking and big enough rear facing all the way until two years old which is what the apa recommends.	easly instaled it in the ca
Performance - Speed	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.	60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion 	Fast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 second	No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  Why	Fast start up speed	the 18.1MP sensor.....WOW	  The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode	I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the pictur	he ISO firmware issue	The best part was the 1080P video. 	hat images from the D3100 are indistinguishable from the more expensive models	Fast start up speed	decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep	ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.	Slower than T2i 	Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.
Focus	Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras	 Very fast auto focus on shooting.	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras	video manual focus	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras	Very fast auto focus on shooting.	I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor.	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.	Focus in live picture mode is slow	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor.	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture	Focus in live picture mode is slow	Almost no low light auto focus 	 Focus	built-in focus motor	Very fast auto focus on shooting	Focus in live picture mode is slow	Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light painting	4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. 	- Focus in live picture mode is slow 	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus	Focus in live picture mode is slow	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow.	Very fast auto focus on shooting.	- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor.	#N/A	#N/A	Almost no low light auto focus	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor.	Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras	Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras	Almost no low light auto focus	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow.	Very fast auto focus on shooting.	Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras	Almost no low light auto focus	No autofocus when zooming while taking video	I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.	- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras	Very fast auto focus on shooting.	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras
Heavy	 heavy
Lightweight	again good for trips.	1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shootin	t.  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.
Holds Child Up To 65 Pounds	  So I had to uninstall it and reinstall it with the pad in its proper place making it very difficult to do.
Easy To Install	I also find it really easy to install	easy to use and install 	really easy to install	VERY easy to install base in car	It is so easy to use and instal	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. 	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions	VERY easy to install base in car. 	from when I opened the box and easly instaled it in the car	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.	It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product	 VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.  light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.
Installing	y other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing. Between my 3 kids Ive been through about 6 different convertible car seats in the past 8 years and this one was by far the most difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt.  At one point or another Ive had to install all of my previous car seats rear facing with the vehicle belt.	 The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.	I love this chair. from when I opened the box and easly instaled it in the car.	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.	 VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow remember now I am the grandma and over 50 so please keep it simple 	It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great produc	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions	easy to use and install	difficult to install 	easy to install please do read all the directions first	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes	Easy to install via my hubby	The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. 	 I was able to fit it easily and securely	easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow	this one was by far the most difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt.
Material	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers 	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen	seat cover became scratchy	 dont need to compromise on quality or style	 One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.	This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well.	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.	This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well.	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin.	The material was soft and fuzzy	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.	Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEAT	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.	 It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby	seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy	material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen	Catch a lot of stuff under the padding	material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy	Material is easy to clean	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.	but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.	suede-like plush material -- free of charge  	he material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.	comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.	cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.	This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped in.	 a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick. One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.
Cleaning	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily	Material is easy to clean	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come off	All that to say - I still love a lot of things about this carseat but I do NOT love cleaning it.	the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.	material is easy to take off and machine wash	Some of the reviews complain that the Air  wings  cause problems for the kid seeing out but their height is adjustable AND I really like that when my daughter falls asleep they hold her head up so its not bobbing all over the place.The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.  Thats not so bad since she did not puke on that part except that I was not aware that the headrest pad is attached to another pad that continues down the back behind the main pad   So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.  Im having quite an interesting time getting the nasty puke smell out of it.All that to say - I still love a lot of things about this carseat but I do NOT love cleaning it.	NOT love cleaning it.	the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.	but I do NOT love cleaning it	o not clean easily   	the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off	easy to clean 	material is easy to take off and machine wash 	My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come off	Material is easy to clean 	Catch a lot of stuff under the padding	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.	do not clean easily	My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.  Thats not so bad since she did not puke on that part except that I was not aware that the headrest pad is attached to another pad that continues down the back behind the main pad   So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.  Im having quite an interesting time getting the nasty puke smell out of it.	do not clean easily 	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.  Thats not so bad since she did not puke on that part except that I was not aware that the headrest pad is attached to another pad that continues down the back behind the main pad   So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.  Im having quite an interesting time getting the nasty puke smell out of it.All that to say - I still love a lot of things about this carseat but I do NOT love cleaning it.	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily 	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come off	Catch a lot of stuff under the padding	do not clean easily	needs to be cleaned by hand	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily	the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand	Catch a lot of stuff under the padding	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily 	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.  Thats not so bad since she did not puke on that part except that I was not aware that the headrest pad is attached to another pad that continues down the back behind the main pad   So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.  Im having quite an interesting time getting the nasty puke smell out of it.	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come off	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily 	Catch a lot of stuff under the padding	All that to say - I still love a lot of things about this carseat but I do NOT love cleaning it.
Performance Speed	decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  Why
User Friendliness	y I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode	solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip
Low Weight	Relatively light
Use For Beginners	if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses
Delays	frequent and unpredictable delays	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.	.  The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.
Feel	It is as many have explained before a little small as I was used to the bigger and heavier 20D body but I guess is just a matter of getting used to it.	Somewhat Compact sizeEase of use	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.	  I love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy.  It looks like it should be but does not feel like it is.  It appears to be a very sturdy camera.	Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.	.  I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.
User Friendly	a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.  I chose to purchase the camera body separately so that I could pair it with the EF-S 17-55mm f/2.8 IS USM lens.  Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera.  Ive taken some stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens combo.  Save yourself the headache of working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body.  Pair it with the lens of your choice but I have no regrets with my 17-55mm purchase.	It is very user Friendly and Fun to use.	Being a beginner in photography	Easy to operate.	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menu. The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not.
Autofocus 	Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors.	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture	auto focus	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. 	No autofocus	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for	Very fast auto focus on shooting.	Very fast auto focus on shooting	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.	 Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras
Flip Out Screen	It is GREAT for skate/surf video because of its 60fps mode.  If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this camera	After searching and searching for a DSLR camera I had almost convinced myself of the T2i. I resisted and ended up waiting to purchase the T3i which was the best decision I made. At a glance the camera has a good feel to it and overall has the same features as the T2i. The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take.	Im a film student and was trying to decide between a t3i and Nikon 5100. everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera. the 600d has better continuous recording you have better manual capabilities. after a lot research i decided to go with the canon i went with a t3i and not a t2i for the flip around screen. i shoot in awkward positions sometimes and it defiantly comes in handy
Operation	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.	The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.	makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode.	Easy to operate	capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes	capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes	Easy to operate.	 Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.
Grainy Pictures	 grain in the picture
Low Light	shoots great in low lighting settings	shoots great in low lighting settings. all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels natural. 	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light painting	hoots great in low lighting settings. 	The  better sensor  in the D5100 and D7000 at best has a bit more low light sensitivity 	 shoots great in low lighting settings. 
Flip Out LCD	Low resolution of LCD screen.	flip out LCD screen	No Flip-out LCD
Comfort	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable 	My child is so comfortable	I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding	nice fabric thats soft to the touch	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddler	my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.	comfortable on my babys skin.	Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.  Ive felt a lot of other car seats out there that feel like theyd be pretty hard to sit on and uncomfortable.	well constructed and pretty comfy	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in	raco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.	Fit my newborns head with the extra cushion that came with it.	My child is so comfortable 	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.	he seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.	 The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby	well constructed and pretty comfy	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.	I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat	 May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers	head/neck support cushion	there is absolutely NO padding	extra cushion that came with it	comes with head/neck support cushion	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. 	Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra. As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once.	 be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.	very comfortable	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her	My child is so comfortable 	my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.	He still falls asleep with ease.	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric	very comfortable for a little baby	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddler	Install was exteremly easy	comfortable on my babys skin	comfortable for my son.	my son LOVES it	 My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. 	fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in	This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped in	provides comfert for her.	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding	 Fit my newborns head with the extra cushion	When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.	very comfortable for a little baby	So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic	When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddler	He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.	NO padding	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.	very comfortable for a little baby	My son fits comfortably in it	my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses	head/neck support cushion.	theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic. 	comfortable	fits comfortably	very comfortable 	fit fine and snug 	o much room verses his carrier car seat	padded well and comfortable for my son.	bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy	Big enough for a toddler	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddler	 material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.	sun visor	baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.	comfortable and appears to be very safe	breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.  	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddler	my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room	He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here	seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy	comfortable on my babys skin	material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little bab	regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though	biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes	but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness	its a very tight space to use the light blue head rests 	for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEAT	daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows	My child is so comfortable 	extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.  I love the no rethread harness	its very comfortable	first one to have a serious lack of adequate padding	 likes being in the seat and able to look out of the windows 	He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy	This will even work for newborns.	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it.	shoots great in low lighting settings. all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels natural. 	It appears to be a very sturdy camera.	For ease of use IQ form factor 	Love this car seat   After extensive research and practically being settled on the Britax Advocate I feel like you get what you pay for I was told about this car seat and figured I would give it a try.  Worse case I would just use it in my husbands car and then order the Britax for my car.  No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.  I am going to order another one of these for my husbands car.  It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product 	This is a great car seat. I did a lot of research on safety price etc. before buying this one.  I actually bought two one for my car and one for my husbands car.  We were very pleased with it.  Both were delivered super fast and in perfect condition.  Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars. Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. All I can say is this was a great purchase for our family.	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.	 absolutely love this car seat. It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. I highly recommend this it item.	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.	padded	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it.	ou can recline it at 3 different levels.	there is absolutely NO padding	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddler	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure	He seemed very comfortable in it 	 its very comfortable and appears to be very safe	very comfortable for a little baby	Not much padding in the seat part..	It fit fine and snug as can be	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure	very comfortable for a little baby	So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in	No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby	there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.	son LOVES it	comfortable for my son	 I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.	#N/A	#N/A	#N/A	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric	nice fabric thats soft to the touch	but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding	he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him	I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in	But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing. My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions. 	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.	  Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars. Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin	So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.	It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. I highly recommend this it item.	his car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well. Overall a very nice car seat for the price	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. 	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.	For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.	Normally he literally fights and struggles when it is time to get into the the car but not this time.	my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.	. Even though my son isnt quiet 1 yet he was ready for a more toddler friendly seat. This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him. I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.	He seemed very comfortable in it and I liked that the extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.	The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRs	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddler	soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it	comfert for her	the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son	My son fits comfortably in it 	  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.  Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.	 My child is so comfortable	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.	my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.	Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.  Ive felt a lot of other car seats out there that feel like theyd be pretty hard to sit on and uncomfortable.	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddler	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it.	He seemed very comfortable in it and I liked that the extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.	comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.	#N/A	#N/A	But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing. My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.	 My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.	Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do. Again my little girl likes being in the seat and able to look out of the windows at the world around her.	This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped in.	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in	 Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddler	very comfortable	#N/A	#N/A	#N/A	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.	my son LOVES it	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.	I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.	my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.	My child is so comfortable	very comfortable for a little baby	 My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in	Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much . But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing. My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions. I have a 2003 Maxima which has a slight bump in the middle	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.	this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.	seat seams padded well and comfortable	comfortably	seat cover became scratchy	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddler	 provides comfert	He seemed very comfortable	very comfortable	very comfortable for a little baby	This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable straps	It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels	this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well.	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large t	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.	Overall were really happy with this car seat.  It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.	fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh.	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.	 Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.	No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.	a more toddler friendly seat	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels.	 My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.	where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding	He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.	I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat.	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her.	My child is so comfortable 	 its very comfortable	  This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped in.	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.	this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.	Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.  Ive felt a lot of other car seats out there that feel like theyd be pretty hard to sit on and uncomfortable.	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable straps	The seat was comfortable looking and big enough rear facing all the way until two years old which is what the apa recommends.	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin.	Even though my son isnt quiet 1 yet he was ready for a more toddler friendly seat. This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him. I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat.	Even though my son isnt quiet 1 yet he was ready for a more toddler friendly seat. This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him. I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat.	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.	Normally he literally fights and struggles when it is time to get into the the car but not this time. I love this chair  My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.	After purchasing this seat we took it for a test drive literally with the baby in it.  He seemed very comfortable in it and I liked that the extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.  I love the no rethread harness and although it took me a bit to figure out how to work it it is still fairly simple and much preferrable over the rethread type.	I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit.  It is so high in fact that my 3 1/2 year old would still be able to be rear facing in this seat	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.	I absolutely love this car seat. It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. 	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well. Overall a very nice car seat for the price.	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well. Overall a very nice car seat for the price.	It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. I highly recommend this it item.	This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric	 the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out.	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.	 But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing. My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.	No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.  I am going to order another one of these for my husbands car.  It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product 	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars. Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. 	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable straps	Im glad we had the Chicco Keyfit 30 when our guy was an infant. Im sure this is safe enough but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient. Even though my son isnt quiet 1 yet he was ready for a more toddler friendly seat. This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him. I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it. Im just thinking how happy she will be when she gets turned around in a few months. This will even work for newborns. if I had known that I would have gotten this a long time ago.	It fit fine and snug as can be. What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small. 	  He seemed very comfortable in it and I liked that the extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.  I love the no rethread harness and although it took me a bit to figure out how to work it it is still fairly simple and much preferrable over the rethread type.	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.  Some seats seemed too bulky and I know my daughter would be a sweaty mess in those styles.  This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped in.  The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well. 	So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.	eat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.	protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.	 its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.	 its very comfortable and appears to be very safe. 	I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy	provides comfert for her.	very comfortable	very nice fabric thats soft to the touch	where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding	My child is so comfortable	 this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.  Some seats seemed too bulky and I know my daughter would be a sweaty mess in those styles.  This seat seems to breathe so she remains	my 2 year old became giddy with excitement. Normally he literally fights and struggles when it is time to get into the the car but not this time. I love this chair  My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure. I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The	He seemed very comfortable in it and I liked that the extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.  I love the no	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in	This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him.	my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.	 My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.	recline it at 3 different level	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room	comfortable	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.	Not much padding in the seat part
Space	The seat is gigantic. 	has so much room	Very bulky.	has so much room	Big enough for a toddler	Very bulky. 	it is a big car seat	The seat is gigantic	 its a very tight space
Removable Head Rest	the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small	head rest is removable	head rest is removable	head rest is removable	head rest is removable	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.	  My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.
Hard To Clean	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.  Thats not so bad since she did not puke on that part except that I was not aware that the headrest pad is attached to another pad that continues down the back behind the main pad   So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.  Im having quite an interesting time getting the nasty puke smell out of it.All that to say - I still love a lot of things about this carseat but I do NOT love cleaning it.	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come off
Auto Focus	Very fast auto focus on shooting.	Almost no low light auto focus	uto focus in  live view  mode 	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.	Very fast auto focus on shooting.	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow.	Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras	Almost no low light auto focus	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.	Very fast auto focus on shooting.	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light painting	 No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.	Very fast auto focus on shooting.	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow	No autofocus when zooming while taking video	No autofocus when zooming while taking video	Very fast auto focus on shooting	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow.	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light painting	Very fast auto focus on shooting.	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.	Very fast auto focus on shooting.	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow.	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.
Service	Canon service is apparently better than nikon. 	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers 	Canon service is apparently better than nikon.	Canon service is apparently better than nikon.	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge 	Canon service is apparently better than nikon.	customer service	Canon service is apparently better than nikon.	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge 	After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base.	Canon service is apparently better than nikon	Canon service is apparently better than nikon	Canon service is apparently better than nikon.	sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised.	  We are able to use our Britax Marathon a Graco booster and this infant car seat all in one row.  This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  I
FIt	It fit fine and snug as can be.	I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars.	light bump in the middle	doesnt move around	size is pretty big	Big enough for a toddler	seat is gigantic.	It fit fine and snug as can be	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in	This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him	fit fine	fine and snug as can	 It fit fine and snug as can be	The seat is gigantic.	fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.	fits comfortably in it and has so much room	It fit fine and snug as can be	car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around	not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level	with the side impact shaping its a very tight space to use the light blue head rests shown in the listing picture.  I havent tested it out yet but just from the appearance I can tell its not going to work	 My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in	I was able to fit it easily	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.	  Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.	 This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him. I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.	#N/A	#N/A	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.	ts very comfortable and appears to be very safe	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.	 My son fits comfortably in it	#N/A	it has fit really well in all cars	Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do. Again my little girl likes being in the seat and able to look out of the windows at the world around her. I would recommend this product to anyone I knew who was in need of a good car seat.	 It fit fine and snug as can be.	 fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.
Use	The T2i is FAST	adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode	view finder is very clear	It is so easy to use and install 
Install	  The instructions say to lift the seat pad when threading the belt through which I did but then once the seat was installed I couldnt get the pad back down over the seat where it was against the seat back of the actual vehicle seat.  So I had to uninstall it and reinstall it with the pad in its proper place making it very difficult to do.	Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do. 	easy to install	easly instaled it in the car.	set this up in about 7 minutes. If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.	pretty easy to install	The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.	The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. 	Easy to install	Easy to install	easly instaled it in the car	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base.	VERY easy to install base in car.	VERY easy to install base in car.	VERY easy to install base in car	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. 	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing.	ts a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick	easy to use and install 	Easy to install	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there 	easy to install especially as compared to the graco	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.	 it really easy to install please do read all the directions first	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.	its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick	It is so easy to use and install 	a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick	so easy to use and install	it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.	difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions	VERY easy to install base in car	little difficult to install	little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick	it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.	easy to use and install	es its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick	 seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars.  	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars	I did end up having my son install it for me. 	hey are easy to install especially 	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. 	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.	 easly instaled it in the car.	extremely difficult to install it rear facing	 I had to uninstall it and reinstall it with the pad in its proper place making it very difficult to do	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.	It is so easy to use and install   	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.	I have been using the graco snug ride 30 metropolis for 2 months now. So far I am only satisfied with this car seat.pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.	 I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions	little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. 
Baby Comfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.	 seat cover became scratchy.	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought	comes with head/neck support cushion	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric	 serious lack of adequate padding.	 sure this is safe enough but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient. 	y child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure. 	 seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature 
Roomy	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.	roomier
Detachable Cup Holder	detachable one in the box
Easy Installation	It is so easy to use and install	but it was easy if you read the instructions. 	asly instaled it in the car. 	Easy to install	VERY easy to install base in car	trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.	I love this chair. from when I opened the box and easly instaled it in the car. it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it. Im just thinking how happy she will be when she gets turned around in a few months. This will even work for newborns. if I had known that I would have gotten this a long time ago.	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars. Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. All I can say is this was a great purchase for our family.
Bulky	We love these carseats.  It is a big seat especially rear facing.  We have a Sienna mini van and we had them both on the bench seat.  Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards. They would have rested on the middle seats.  Other than that it is an awesome seat.  It holds the girls very secure and they love them.  They were pretty easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats. Other than the issues in rear facing position this is a terrific seat.	Very bulky	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards	gigantic	 it is a big car seat	#N/A	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.	Very bulky. 	Very bulky.	big car seat	seat is gigantic.  	Very bulky
Light Weight	Relatively light	not very heavy.	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.
Cons About Product	I will make a brief of my own experience of this camera to DSLR beginnersPros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.
Pros	Light weight	Easy to operate	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iCons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light painting	Since I have switched from Nikon to Canon a lot of my review is based on comparison to Nikon.ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.	T2i is the Best Entry Level DSLR	Excellent Product came within 2 business days even though I did standard shipping. Fit my newborns head with the extra cushion that came with it.  Loved the colors as well. Works perfectly with the Snap N G
Easy To Use	I am not a professional so please dont take my opinion	Ease of use	good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.	Easy to operate	 ease of us	Ease of use	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.	Easy to operate.	What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.	the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well.
Ease Of Installation	easly instaled it in the car	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.	 its a little difficult to install	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.	It is so easy to use and install 	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars.	Easy to install	VERY easy to install base in car.	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes.	nd easly instaled it in the car.	Easy to install	Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do.	The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra. As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once.	They were pretty easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats.	The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well.	My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing.	difficult to install	easy to use and install	Easy to install	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes	easly instaled	VERY easy to instal	It is so easy to use and install	  It is so easy to use and install 	It is so easy to use and install	easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.	 set this up in about 7 minutes	VERY easy to install base in car.	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars. Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. 	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.	VERY easy to install base in car.
Easy To Use And Install	It is so easy to use and install
Highest Safety Rating	highest safety rating.	highest safety ratin
Big	big
Difficult To Install Rear Facing	difficult to install it rear facing.
Megapixel	18MP Stills	1080p HD
Low Cost	its wallet friendly	i have probably saved  200-300  i would recommend this to anybody i know who is into DSLR. NIKON  way to go  
Usage	Ive had it for about a year and I love it	Easy to operate	It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.	very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable
Roominess	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.
Audio	No audio recording level adjust	No audio recording level adjust	o audio recording level adjust	No audio recording level adjust
0	Excellent Beginners DSLR	I took some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very good.	e money on lense	I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing.
Money	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much . 	spending that much 
Performance	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.	Built-in flash is not so great	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video	18MP Stills  	60fps HD Recording	3.7 max burst rate	grain in the picture	choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photos	decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  Why	T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays	he T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode	This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera	18.1MP sensor	video.....Its 1080p 	Digital 3x zoom in video mode.	Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode so it acts like a point and shoot	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video	live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow.	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.	White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video	nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing	18MP Stills 	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light painting	This is not a professional level SLR	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video	 Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.	delays are still there	#N/A	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.	 Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOther Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for 	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.	1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.	Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.	- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3i	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.  I conducted countless hours of research on Canons Nikons and even Sonys.  I was used to using point-and-shoots and small flip style video cameras to make my videos.  I looked into DSLRs and really wanted a canon.  YOU CANT GO WRONG WITH THIS CAMERA   It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.	Cons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light painting	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this camera	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.	I used the same exact settings on both cameras large Jpeg P-mode Quick AF.  Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.	 This camera is very tight on power consumption and has extreme accuracy when you set it for pinpoint focusing as I do for model and portrait photography work. The macro features are also on par with its more advanced and WAY higher priced big brothers to this camera. Now the 18.1MP sensor.....WOW  The image sizes of the CMOS sensor allow me great latitude in adjusting and tweaking my RAW images anytime I wish to be creative. If you are just starting out are bored with the out of date  point-n-shoot  want to upgrade your digital cams or you want to move from film to digital the T3i will not disappoint. Its an excellent camera for ANY level of photographer - beginner or experienced pro this camera really shines. Oh and the video.....Its 1080p HD nothing more needs to be said.	ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.	This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.	In hindsight The nikon D5100 has a better larger DX sensor vs canon APS sized sensor sensor. So less noise on the Nikon.	there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photos.  You would expect Auto Modes to take easy great pictures in an entry level camera most people coming from point and shoot cameras.  If you want sharp pictures you have to use P S A or M modes with the D3100.  There you can control the ISO manually or use Auto ISO and choose a lower maximum ISO setting.  Apparently this is a discussed firmware issue but Nikon claimed they hadnt heard about it when I messaged them	I changed the camera to P S A 	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.	I took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality. I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer. The quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it.	I own a Nikon D7000 that I traded up to after owning a D3100 that I used to take over 8000 photos with.  Ive also extensively used a Nikon D5100 so I have a pretty good sense of the capability of each of Nikons three consumer cameras.  The bottom line is that images from the D3100 are indistinguishable from the more expensive models.	The best part was the 1080P video. I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good and my wife who is very difficult to please liked it so much that she said that next time we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100	 Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips	Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.
Lens	I am not a professional so please dont take my opinion as someone acting as an authority on this subject but as a first time user I am happy and hope my review will help any other first time digital camera fans out there.  Thanks.	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult	I am impressed with the lens that comes with the camera for the wide angle aspect of it due to a lot of places I shoot pictures there are a lot of people and requires me to get close to get the shot I want.	good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses	18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens	Im a film student and was trying to decide between a t3i and Nikon 5100. everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera. the 600d has better continuous recording you have better manual capabilities.	They all said the t2i or t3i its a great starter camera and will profuce amazing pictures as well. I will say that if I could buy it again I would but not with the kit lenses yes it seems like a good deal. But anyone that knows cameras and knows their way around with them will tell you they are crap lenses. 	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses.	18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.	- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses.	everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera	T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.	3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Over	If you are looking to do mainly surf but this camera BODY ONLY + a 18-135mm 55-200mm or 75-300mm	situation where you dont want to change lenses	18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens	The 18-135 lens is nice but a bit large. Maybe its large thats why the image quality is very good.	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens	 this camera.  Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or more.  I purchased two 	18-135mm lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.	For that use the camera and lens seem to work very well.  I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.	40390	item ships for FRE	rder i	availabl	orders	d by Amazon.com.	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses.	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus wh	After reading many reviews and comparisons I decided on this camera as it is the update to the Nikon D3000 that a friend of mine has.	18-135mm lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens	It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses	crap lenses	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm len	But anyone that knows cameras and knows their way around with them will tell you they are crap lenses	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function	this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.	I will say that if I could buy it again I would but not with the kit lenses	the camera and lens seem to work very well	I am impressed with the lens that comes with the camera for the wide angle aspect of it due to a lot of places I shoot pictures there are a lot of people and requires me to get close to get the shot I want.	good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.	to take high quality photos of fairly small works of sculpture art using the Canon 60mm macro lens.  For that use the camera and lens seem to work very well	Pair it with the lens of your choice	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.	Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.	Ive taken some stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens combo.  Save yourself the headache of working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body.	the kit lens that it comes with doesnt zoom far enough at all.	 I will say that if I could buy it again I would but not with the kit lenses	No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available.	18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras	dont want to change lenses	Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera.	Since initially posting Ive purchased these lenses Canon EF 75-300mm f/4-5.6 III USM Telephoto Zoom Lens for Canon SLR Cameras and Canon EF 50mm f/1.8 II Camera Lens and really like what the camera can do. Im more and more certain in the 5 stars I put on this review. Really love this camera.	f1.8 and the Tamron 70-300 lenses	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.	No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.	 everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera.	For the money I saved on the camera I was able to purchase a telephoto lens to go with it. 	 of purchase for ANY and ALL people entering or needing an advanced DSLR camera. I purchased the body only - I have several lenses from my previous Canons which are NOT currently IS lenses. Ive been shooting people places and other thi	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.	period	upgrade	upgrade	period	upgrade	#N/A	#N/A	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.	18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses	 this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera	his camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the mon	No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses	 Canon 15-85mm f/3.5-5.6 EF-S Zoom Lens and than I will be in some serious business	 they are crap lenses. I wound up purchasing a 50mm 1.4 off a local photographer off CL	No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.	go for a single lens which covers the entire range	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade	 I will say that if I could buy it again I would but not with the kit lenses yes it seems like a good deal. But anyone that knows cameras and knows their way around with them will tell you they are crap lenses	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.	 The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses.	Im happy with my choice so far having purchased the camera first of all to take high quality photos of fairly small works of sculpture art using the Canon 60mm macro lens.	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses.	Focus in live picture mode is slow 	#N/A	#N/A	#N/A	#N/A	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses.	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips	nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.	I am impressed with the lens that comes with the camera for the wide angle aspect of it due to a lot of places I shoot pictures there are a lot of people and requires me to get close to get the shot I want.	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. 	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses	good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses	18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade	#N/A	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.	It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video	Focus in live picture mode is slow	 this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera	I chose the t2i over t3i because I didnt feel I would need to use the movable lcd screen	especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible	his camera is very tight on power consumption and has extreme accuracy when you set it for pinpoint focusing as I do for model and portrait photography work.	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.	Well I have since done some research and participated in forums and found out there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photos	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.	#N/A	And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens	Pair it with the lens of your choice	 Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera.	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOther Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for 	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.	 Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MP	The T2i is FAST	 I am impressed with the lens that comes with the camera for the wide angle aspect of it due to a lot of places I shoot pictures there are a lot of people and requires me to get close to get the shot I want	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.	- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Es	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.	Other Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for 	No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3i	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult	18-135mm lens	 I am impressed with the lens that comes with the camera for the wide angle aspect	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.	The IS works really well 	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function 	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for 	Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit	I have used the f1.8 and the Tamron 70-300 lenses as well as the kit lens and love learning every day with it.	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MP	Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera.	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in 	his kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light perfor	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras	18-135mm lens	18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens	14.2MP Digital SLR Camera with 18-55mm	Canon 15-85mm f/3.5-5.6 EF-S Zoom Lens	Save yourself the headache of working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body.  Pair it with the lens of your choice but I have no regrets with my 17-55mm purchase.	 I will say that if I could buy it again I would but not with the kit lenses yes it seems like a good deal	18-135mm lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.	There are very many accessories and lenses for this camera.  
User-friendliness And Functionality	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.
Low Light AF	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light painting
Autofocus/zoom	No autofocus when zooming while taking video
Taking Wide Angle Pictures	Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.
Taking Live Pictures	Focus in live picture mode is slow
Accessories	 They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.	my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly	Disappointed they offer HDMI input but dont provided the cable.	comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRs	There are very many accessories and lenses for this camera.  If you want to really get serious about photography or video making then get THIS camera.	And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens	here are very many accessories and lenses for this camera.	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for 	purchase the camera body separately so that I could pair it with the EF-S 17-55mm f/2.8 IS USM lens	consider getting a 50mm f1.8 or 1.4 lens and a fisheye/wideangle if you do skate videos/photos	I wound up purchasing a 50mm 1.4 off a local photographer off CL and I love that lens	pictures at full 18MP take a lot of memory. Better get some means of decent storage space 750-1TB hardrive will do	memory cards that they certified to use with this camera.  Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or more.  I purchased two Transcend 8GB Class 10 SDHC Card TS8GSDHC10 from Amazon 	Battery life is not too great	highly recommend you to also get a Nikon 35mm f/1.8G AF-S DX Lens for Nikon Digital SLR Cameras. It can be used to take short range portraits close-ups and indoors where the light is insufficient	son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly	comes with head/neck support cushion.	  Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or more.  I purchased two Transcend 8GB Class 10 SDHC Card TS8GSDHC10 from Amazon and so far these have been amazing.	but it is annoying when he gets it off and starts throwing it around	Works perfectly with the Snap N Go stroller piece	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for 	darn sun visor	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base.	Save yourself the headache of working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body.  Pair it with the lens of your choice but I have no regrets with my 17-55mm purchase.	 flip out LCD screen	There are very many accessories and lenses for this camera.  
Durability And Size	Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day.  I have used the f1.8 and the Tamron 70-300 lenses as well as the kit lens and love learning every day with it.
Slow Motion Video	60fps HD Recording
Zooming Autofocus	No autofocus when zooming 
Additional Info	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.
Autofocus/low Light	no low light auto focus
Comparison	Ive compared Canon EOS t2i with Nikon D3100 and finally I picked D3100. I am very happy about the decision.	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep	Im glad to have this camera it has everything comparable to canon t2  1080p movie 14.2 mp 502g light weight. 3 inch screen 	I had been taking pictures with my roommates Canon EOS t2i for months and then I decided to get my own entry-level DSLR. Ive compared Canon EOS t2i with Nikon D3100 and finally I picked D3100. I am very happy about the decision.	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this camera	according to the experts there is really not much difference betrween t2i and the t3i	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am sure the Nikon D5100 is a spectacular camera and it sports a larder image sensor than the Canon. I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take.	The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.	ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.	In hindsight The nikon D5100 has a better larger DX sensor vs canon APS sized sensor sensor. So less noise on the Nikon.	Ive compared Canon EOS t2i with Nikon D3100 and finally I picked D3100.	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.	Since I have switched from Nikon to Canon a lot of my review is based on comparison to Nikon.
MP	18MP Stills 	Canon EOS Rebel T3i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-Inch Clear View Vari-Angle LCD and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS Lens	Canon EOS Rebel T2i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-inch LCD and and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS Lens
Kit Lens	I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer. The quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it. I also took a picture of a cherry tree that was about 30 yards away and then opened it up in Photoshop zoomed in and could see cherries that I could not even see with my eyes from the spot where I took the picture.	Save yourself the headache of working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body.	kit lens	period	standard	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses	them will tell you they are crap lense	 if I could buy it again I would but not with the kit lenses	Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive	 I will say that if I could buy it again I would but not with the kit lenses yes it seems like a good deal. But anyone that knows cameras and knows their way around with them will tell you they are crap lenses.
Video	ideo modes in SLR cameras are fairly useless unless you are good with manual focussing and use the tripod. BTW the lens IS does work in video mode.	 good low-light performance nice video.	Oh and the video.....Its 1080p HD nothing more needs to be said.	1	1080P video	The best part was the 1080P	Digital 3x zoom in video mode.	080P video	The best part was the 1080P video.	you would have thought I used a real video camera and not one from a camera	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING	60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion 	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion 	best part was the 1080P video	guess now i can finally retire my mini DV video camera	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate	600d has better continuous recording	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING	nice video	ets talk Video I have taken alot for Football and I can not believe the quality and sound you would have thought I used a real video camera and n	video manual focus on the Canon	nice video	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING	now lets talk Video I have taken alot for Football and I can not believe the quality and sound you would have thought I used a real video camera and not one from a camera it has surpassed what I have expected for a camera I am unbelievably happy with my purchase.	Takes good quality of videos.	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion 	Oh and the video.....Its 1080p HD	#N/A	It is GREAT for skate/surf video because of its 60fps mode.	60fps HD Recording	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.	No autofocus when zooming while taking video	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING	Takes good quality of videos.	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.	No audio recording level adjust	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor.	The best part was the 1080P video	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING	60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion 	good low-light performance nice video	Takes good quality of videos.	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion 	 After testing out all the products I came to the decision that the only cameras I liked that felt good in my hand were the Canon T2i Nikon D5100 and the Can T3i. I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal. The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor.	lets talk Video I have taken alot for Football and I can not believe the quality and sound you would have thought I used a real video camera and not one from a camera it has surpassed what I have expected for a camera I am unbelievably happy with my purchase.	The best part was the 1080P video
Manual Focus/video	video manual focus
Good For Motion Pictures	t is GREAT for skate/surf video because of its 60fps mode.
AF	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.
Smaller Sensor	In hindsight The nikon D5100 has a better larger DX sensor vs canon APS sized sensor sensor. So less noise on the Nikon.
Customer Review 4/5	0	0
Low Light Shooting	shoots great in low lighting settings.
Video Zoom	Digital 3x zoom
Continuous Mode	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode
Point And Shoot	the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for. 
Auto Lens Mode	Auto mode	 took some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very good.	 I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.	Auto	 Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures	it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes.	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for. 	right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for. 	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.	I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.	the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.	You would expect Auto Modes to take easy great pictures in an entry level camera most people coming from point and shoot cameras.  If you want sharp pictures you have to use P S A or M modes with the D3100.  	Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A 	the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures	there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.	 there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting	 I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.	  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.	took some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very good	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for. 
Automode And Point	not in the auto point and shoot modes.
Expensive Memory Card Required	Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or more
Modes	P S A 	the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.	I changed the camera to P S A 	Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras
Auto ISO	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A 
Lcd	230000 pixels	No Flip-out LCD	Low resolution of LCD screen	 Low resolution of LCD screen	No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus w
New User	For ease of use IQ form factor it wont weigh me down etc. I feel as if the D3100 was a great purchase. Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price 
Noises	noises
Guide Mode	For the money the D3100 cant be beat.  What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shot	What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.  I have learned more using that mode in one week than from the weeks Ive spent reading books and websites.	Also i loved the guide mode when in doubt use guide.	guide mode. 	 guide mode 	#N/A	What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.  I have learned more using that mode in one week than from the weeks Ive spent reading books and websites.	I researched for several weeks looking seriously at the Canon T2i and the Nikon D3100.  For the money the D3100 cant be beat.  What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.  I have learned more using that mode in one week than from the weeks Ive spent reading books and websites.  For the money I saved on the camera I was able to purchase a telephoto lens to go with it.  Worth every penny.  I look forward to many years of great photos.	 i loved the guide mode
Holding Camera In Awkward Positions	very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.	articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only	articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i
Good For Carrying Around	light and small
Low Res LCD	. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.
Carrying Around For A Long Time	Battery life
Lens Price	No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens
For Armature Photographers And Beginners	the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.
Taking Easy Pictures	just not in the auto point and shoot modes
Taking Videos	I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good 
Straps	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.	adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats	No thread adjustable straps	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position	the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as wel	hey were pretty easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats. Other than the issues in rear facing position this is a terrific seat.	No thread adjustable straps	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.	adjusting the straps	No thread adjustable straps	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.
Head Rest	head rest is removable which does not block my view	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable	comes with head/neck support cushion	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.	the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand	 head rest is removable	headrest DOES NOT come off 	 head rest is removable	 daughter falls asleep they hold her head up so its not bobbing all over the place.	#N/A	 head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.	 the head rest is removable	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily  	 I liked that the extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small.	I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable	headrest DOES NOT come off	the head rest is removable
Rating	rated 	I purchased this seat because it was rated 	 highest safety rating.	I purchased this seat because it was rated 	259 Reviews	Canon EOS Rebel T3i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-Inch Clear View Vari-Angle LCD and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS Lens
Ratings	rated 	 rated 	 I would recommend this product to anyone I knew who was in need of a good car seat.	 rated 	I purchased this seat because it was rated 	The First Years True Fit Recline Convertible Car Seat	I purchased this seat because it was rated 	Amazon.com Customer Reviews Safety 1st Complete Air 65 Protect Convertible Car Seat Silver Leaf	Graco Snugride Child Car Seat	0	Customer Reviews	 rated 	0
Snug Fit	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around
Bulk	Very bulky	afety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.	dont mind the bulk.	he seat is gigantic.	Very bulky	seat seems to breathe
Adjusting While Facing Rear	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position
Support	head/neck support cushion	head/neck support cushion	comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable
Installatin	hey were pretty easy to install 
Quality And Price	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.
Sun Visor	 the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.	the biggest is this darn sun visor	the biggest is this darn sun visor.	darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.	ons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.	sun visor	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking	cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.	 When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.	 the biggest is this darn sun visor.	the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.	he biggest is this darn sun visor	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.	the biggest is this darn sun visor	the biggest is this darn sun visor	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.	this darn sun visor	cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.	 the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.	cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.	cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.	sun visor	 darn sun visor	When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.	on.cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to 
Comfortable And Safe	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels
Extra Base	correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level.
Weight Limit	higher weight limit	weight limit 	  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.	I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.	I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit	higher weight limit	higher weight limit 	it has a higher weight limit as well	higher weight limit as well.	higher weight limit as well. 
Padding	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding. 	very nice fabric thats soft to the touch	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.	comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.	Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.  Ive felt a lot of other car seats out there that feel like theyd be pretty hard to sit on and uncomfortable.	disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy. 	but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding	So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.	where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.	#N/A	ely NO padding.  	there is absolutely NO padding	 Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding 	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still 	thats soft to the touch 	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.	where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric	NO padding	the seat seams padded well	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -	 If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I	 Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats i	Catch a lot of stuff under the padding	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.
Visor	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out.	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out	darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.	cons the biggest is this darn sun visor	the biggest is this darn sun visor
High Weight Limit	 higher weight limit as well.
Rear Facing Fit	If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction bo
Washability	he part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.
Size In Smaller Cars	 but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there
Safe And Comfortable	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.  Some seats seemed too bulky and I know my daughter would be a sweaty mess in those styles.  This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped in.
Adjust In Rear Facing	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.	adjusting the straps
Smaller Size 	 17in. wide
Recline	you can recline it at 3 different level	djustable you can recline
Seat Padding	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.	where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding	where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding	the seat seams padded well	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.
Spacious	has so much room
Not Blocking The View	the head rest is removable
Affordability	wallet friendly	wallet friendly	the price is very reasonable.
Comfortable Texture	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby
Adjustable Position	the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels
Quick And Easy Installation	VERY easy to install base in car
Holding A Baby	head/neck support cushion
Sun Screening	When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes
Getting The Base In A Level Position	you cannot tell if the car seat is level. 
Not Sure About The Weight Limit	the product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat
Convenient For Holding Cups	cup holder 
Cleaning The Seat	The material is easy to take off and machine wash
Suitable For Babies Of A Wide Age Range	This will even work for newborns
Memory Card	Saving in this format is 20MB a picture and this card has no trouble keeping up.
Higher Cost	Excellent camera though a bit expensive - worth every penny
Improved Default Lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.
Upgrades Lens If Beginner DSLR	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens
Overall Use And Picture/video Capability	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video	Ive taken some stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens combo	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate	230k dots screen its very bright and clear anyways compare to 900+ dot	adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode	GRID functions. These work only in LIVE VIEW MODE as Ive found so far	430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly	 stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens combo
Cost	its wallet friendly	great deal for the price	Price	I could not see myself spending that much 	0	 its wallet friendly	those of us who cant afford a Britax.	wallet friendly	price is very reasonable.	Cons- Price	T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100	for 150 bucks less I do not need a rotating screen and other minute extended features	out of stock at Amazon and also with 10	at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup	images from the D3100 are indistinguishable from the more expensive models	money I saved on the camera I was able to purchase a telephoto lens	ot it for 699  including the VR 55-200mm + camera bag with DVD .  i also used the transcend 32 gb class 10 from amazon for 50 work without any problems . also bought battery at amazon for 27  EN EL 14   way way  amazing purchase. i have probably saved  200-300	And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens	 its wallet friendly	The only mistake i did was i bought 2 different lens18-55 	its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product 	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable	8GB card are 50	699  including the VR 55-200mm + camera bag with DVD	 its wallet friendly	Overall a very nice car seat for the price	 Price	Price	debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this camera	prices were just too close to pass it up	2011	Bonus- its wallet friendly	It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.	#N/A	Overall were really happy with this car seat.  It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.	If your looking for a great Camera look no further you have found it  If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100	a bit expensive	Price	Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit	And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.	  Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product 
Flash Performance	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.
Auto Focus For Video	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.
Automatic Built In Flash 	Built-in flash is not so grea
Slow Focus	Focus in live picture mode is slow
Needs Uv Filter	Make sure to get UV filter 
Angle Settings Can Create Shade	wide angle setting lens creates a shade
User Interface	user-friendly controls	  It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.  It is very user Friendly and Fun to use.
Awesome Camera	5.0 out of 5 stars 
Needed Accessories	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery	Better get some means of decent storage space 750-1TB hardrive	you have to use P S A or M modes with the D3100	No wireless remote
Excellent Still Photos Compared To Competitors	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MP
Extra Features	T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different	3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light painting	head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.	you can recline it at 3 different levels.	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily 	Cons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light painting	Cons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light painting	I chose the t2i over t3i because I didnt feel I would need to use the movable lcd screen and couldnt justify spending that much money on it. If you are condsidering the t3i go ahead and get the 60d. If youd like to see the work I have done with my t2i and 50mm.	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.
Audio Recording Level Adjust	No audio recording level adjust
High Definition	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion 
Frequent Delays	frequent and unpredictable delays
Attribute- Saving In 2 Forms Till Used To Camera	I have the camera saving in both RAW and JPEG until I can get familiar enough to switch completely to RAW
Right Hand Grip	 very adequate right hand grip 
Neck Strap	good quality neck strap
Beginner DSLR	great starter camera
Attribute- Pixel And Grain Makeup	rom the amount of grain in the picture	Low resolution of LCD screen	White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish
For Any Photographer	ANY level of photographer 
Design And Overall Weight	Light weight great body design
Hdmi Input But No Cable Included	offer HDMI input
Attribute- Quick Auto Focus	Very fast auto focus on shooting	T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to
Warranty Service	Canon service is apparently better than nikon.	pathetic nikon warranty service.	Canon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.
Autofocus SLOW	Auto focus in  live view  mode 
Loud Autofocus Motors	 loud autofocus motors	 loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min
Attribute- Ergonomic Design	ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use
Worthwhile Price 	Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit
Fast Auto Focus	Very fast auto focus
Noisey Lens	lens makes noises
Fits Snug	5.0 out of 5 stars 
Head Neck Support	5.0 out of 5 stars 
Soft Comfy	5.0 out of 5 stars 
Holds Up To 65 Lbs	5.0 out of 5 stars 
Intuitive Controls	very intuitive and pleasant to use.	Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode so it acts like a point and shoot.	For ease of use	What sold me was the guide mode.
Auto-focus	3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.	D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photos.  You would expect Auto Modes to take easy great pictures in an entry level camera most people coming from point and shoot cameras.	 I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for. 	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.	Well I have since done some research and participated in forums and found out there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.	No autofocus when zooming while taking video	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras
Manual Focus	Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes.	 This camera is very tight on power consumption and has extreme accuracy when you set it for pinpoint focusing as I do for model and portrait photography work. The macro features are also on par with its more advanced and WAY higher priced big brothers to this camera	 the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor.
Attribute- Design	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in	seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son	put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding
Overall Design Of Product	seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy
Safety Rating	I chose it because it has the highest safety rating.	rated 	highest safety rating	it has the highest safety rating.
Lots Of Room	 so much room
Attribute- Easy Child Placement/removal	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable
A Little Difficult To Install	little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick
Fabric Wears Easily	seat cover
Company Sent Woman New Cover Free	sent me a new cover 
Dimension- Weight Capability	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs
Fits Well In Cars	it has fit really well in all cars.
Attribute- Quick Installation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes
Padded Well	 padded well
Quality- Difficult To Clean	but I do NOT love cleaning it
Material Easy To Clean	Material is easy to clean	material is easy to take off and machine wash
Seat Material	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin.	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.	This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well.	but this is the first one to have a serious lack of adequate padding.	So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.  Im having quite an interesting time getting the nasty puke smell out of it.
Warranty	My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service	Canon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.	sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised.	 My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.	ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.
Easy Set Up	 set this up 
Sleeping	sleeping	As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once.	my daughter falls asleep they hold her head up so its not bobbing all over the place	head kept his head from slumping to the side
Had To Face Forward Because Of Size	rear facing position
Head Rest Does Not Come Off	headrest DOES NOT come off
Well Made	well made	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.	It is a well made and designed car seat
Head Support Cushion	head/neck support cushion
Soft Material	soft and fuzzy
Crash Tested	side crash tested
Sun  Visor Is Mesh	n sun visor. 
No Padding In Seat	NO padding
Built-in Flash	Built-in flash is not so great.	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.	 Built-in flash is not so great	I upgraded from a Canon 20D to this specific model after several hours of navigating product reviews and I dont regret it the other contenders were the T3i and T3 close  range and after careful though on ISO performance MPs price and features I decided that this model offered me the best balance. I also kept in mind that I have a very specific use for it which is wedding photography	#N/A	#N/A	Built-in flash is not so great	Built-in flash is not so great	Built-in flash	Built-in flash is not so great	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.	Built-in flash is not so great	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.	Built-in flash is not so great	#N/A	#N/A	Built-in flash is not so great.	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.	Built-in flash is not so great. 
First DSLR	18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens
Previous Research Reassuring	I did a lot of research going into the purchase
True To Ad	This camera is exactly as it is advertised
Lens Quality	ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOther Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for 	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.  I conducted countless hours of research on Canons Nikons and even Sonys.  I was used to using point-and-shoots and small flip style video cameras to make my videos.  I looked into DSLRs and really wanted a canon.  YOU CANT GO WRONG WITH THIS CAMERA   It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.  It is very user Friendly and Fun to use.PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iCons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light painting
Equipment	No autofocus when zooming
Not Needing To Change Lenses	dont want to change lenses
No Auto Focus	No autofocus	No autofocus when zooming while taking video
Saving money	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.  I conducted countless hours of research on Canons Nikons and even Sonys.  
"\Better\"" Quality Cameras And Price"""	not much difference betrween t2i and the t3i. for 150 bucks less
Grip	 very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.	adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip	 the only cameras I liked that felt good in my hand were the Canon T2i Nikon D5100 and the Can T3
Delays In Taking Photos	delays 
CONS - Battery	Battery life is not too great
CONS - Wireless	 Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality	 No wireless remote	GRID functions. These work only in LIVE VIEW MODE 
Delivery Speed	Amazon prime helped to get the delivery in a very shortest period which was not imaginable.T	The car seat was delivered one day after I ordered it online. Which was outstanding. I took it out of the box and my 2 year old became giddy with excitement. Normally he literally fights and struggles when it is time to get into the the car but not this time. I love this chair  My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure. I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra. As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once.
Cons- Screen 	Low resolution of LCD screen
Being User Friendly	user friendly whether you have read the manual or not
Auto Shoot Quality	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.
Flip Around Screen For Different Positions	flip around screen
Unclear Shots	a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting
USE- Battery	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expecte
Pixels	pixels	 It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. 	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.
Very Fast Auto Shooting	Very fast auto focus on shooting.
Poor Battery Life	Battery life is not too great
Easy To Use When Reading Instructions	easy if you read the instructions
Headrest Is Removable	head rest is removable	at I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small. If you see the video when shopping for a car 
View Of Driver	head rest is removable
Larger Car Seat	bigger than a lot of other car seats out
Seat Cover Quality	eat cover is made of a material	soft and fuzzy very comfortable	middle section is made of mesh
Company Customer Service	new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge
Adjusting Strap Length In Rear Position	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position
Big Car Seat	 big car seat
Rear Facing	 I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.	It is a big seat especially rear facing.	  It is a big seat especially rear facing. 	It is a big seat especially rear facing.  We have a Sienna mini van and we had them both on the bench seat.  Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards.	If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath	  I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit	The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car	issues in rear facing positio
Efficiency 	VERY easy to install base in car	easly instaled it in the car.	fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra	 wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily
Not Removable	Air  wings 
Reasonable Price	price is very reasonable
Head/neck Support	head/neck support cushion
No Padding Where Baby Sits	NO padding
Reclination	recline it at 3 different levels
Base	you cannot tell if the car seat is level.	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level.	They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base	 It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable
Room	I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat	so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in	ittle roomier	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.
Megapixels	18MP Stills 
Cost Analysis	worth every penny	Price
Controls	user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for	Easy to operate	 intuitive and pleasant to use.	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.	exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality 	No audio recording level adjust	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly	No wireless remote	Ergonomically the D3100 is the easier to use compared to the D5100 that had to relinquish four buttons to make room for the swivel screen of the D5100	ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.	menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode. I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible	view finder is very clear and has all basic settings info on the bottom border	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.	 Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for. 	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usuall	  I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.	solid and is easy to hold 	The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit	#N/A	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.	user-friendly controls	to make a living.  This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.  I ch	  I went so far as to query some industry professionals that use Canon DSLRs to make a living.  This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.	user-friendly controls
Change Lens	kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses
Live Picture Mode Slow	 Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras
Fast Continuous Mode	The T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode 
Overall	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Additionally with the side impact shaping its a very tight space to use the light blue head rests shown in the listing picture.  I havent tested it out yet but just from the appearance I can tell its not going to work.Ive purchased SnugRides in the past but this is the first one to have a serious lack of adequate padding.  Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEAT	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for	I have no regrets with my 17-55mm purchase	Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed	3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light painting	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this camera	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal	I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor	The quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it	Compared to my Kodak point and shoot the pictures are great.  I love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras	t is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.  It is very user Friendly and Fun to use.	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3i	Cons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light painting	I decided that this model offered me the best balance.	hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  Why	The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.	This body is rock solid and worthy of purchase for ANY and ALL people entering or needing an advanced DSLR camera.	Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menu. The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not.	ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.	ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.	As a first time Digital SLR buyer and user I love this camera and would highly recommend it to others.	Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes.	I feel as if the D3100 was a great purchase. Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup.	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.	Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.	other 	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.	Big enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable straps	Built in image stabilizer	No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO.	Excellent camera though a bit expensive	ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras	 It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby	Canon T3i ROCKS 	.  This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.
External	he 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly.
No Instant Response	Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.
Picture	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video	I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture	problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting	nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing	on dark venues the extra steps with the high ISO combined with large apertures on lenses provided the best combination	ight out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for	I changed the camera to P S A 	problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photos	great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels	better sensor  in the D5100 and D7000 at best has a bit more low light sensitivity but the overall images are not superior	images from the D3100 are indistinguishable from the more expensive models	dont really mind the 230k dots screen its very bright and clear anyways compare to 900+ dots
Articulated LCD Screen	The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode. I especially like the articulated LCD screen 
7D	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop
No Travel Type Charger	battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger w
View Finder	 a view finder that moves	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.	reference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100. 
Right-hand Grip	The T2i is FAST.
Fits Easy On Tripod	I can just flip open my tripod lock and GO  
Ergonomics	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use	The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRs. Battery life seems to be very good - lo	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.	Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day	 Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit	Ergonomically the D3100 is the easier to use compared to the D5100 that had to relinquish four buttons to make room for the swivel screen of the D5100.	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.	1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.	The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.
Firm Grip	ery adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip
No Cable For HDMI Input	isappointed they offer HDMI input but dont provided the cable
Video Manual Focus	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am sure the Nikon D5100 is a spectacular camera and it sports a	 The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am sure the Nikon D5100 is a spectacular camera and it sports a larder image sensor than the Canon. I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.
18-135 Lens Large	The 18-135 lens is nice but a bit large
Dedicated Iso Button	favorite thing is the dedicated iso button making it easy to change quickly.
Pictures	I get alot of great compliments on my pictures they are professional looking my family and friends say and these are just on the automatic setting
Very Sturdy 	choice.  Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode so it acts like a point and shoot.  Compared to my Kodak point and shoot the pictures are great.  I love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy.  It looks like it should be but does not feel like it is.  It appears to be a very sturdy camera.
Auto Mode Not Good Quality Pictures	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping fo
Installation And Others	head rest is removable	 easy to use and install 	little difficult to install	he size is pretty big	 exteremly easy	fit well in both of ou	Material is easy to clean and comfortable 	easy to install	No thread adjustable straps	Very bulky	VERY easy to install base	light weight and fits well 	big car seat	set this up in about 7 minutes	 easly instaled 	cleaning it.	gigantic.
Poor Quality Material	material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy
Well Padded	seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.
Baby Can See Out Windows	look out of the windows at the world around her
One Day Delivery	delivered one day
Infant Acceptance	He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.
Comfortability	 very comfortable and appears to be very safe	seemed very comfortable	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure	protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her	where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding	very nice fabric thats soft to the touch	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric	material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby	The seat was comfortable looking	comfortable on my babys skin	Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son
Convenience	Other than the issues in rear facing position this is a terrific seat	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions	head rest is removable	I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.	 head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.	He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here	Normally he literally fights and struggles when it is time to get into the the car but not this time.	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.	 Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.	  I love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy.  It looks like it should be but does not feel like it is.  It appears to be a very sturdy camera.	Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup.
Suggestions	- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for 
Variability	I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing.
Responsiveness	Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  Why	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.
Functionality	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.	My only issue with the T3i concerns the GRID functions. These work only in LIVE VIEW MODE as Ive found so far. As soon as you move up to manual for full control you lose the grid I use the 3x3 which helps me set my composition. Yes I can use my eye to place an imaginary grid in the viewfinder but WHY when one is readily available.	head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.	I have used the f1.8 and the Tamron 70-300 lenses as well as the kit lens and love learning every day with it.	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.
Shutter	Minimal shutter lag	T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays
Body	Pair it with the lens of your choice	 body is rock solid and worthy 	Relatively light	Somewhat Compact size	Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.	 Light weight great body design.	basically a 7D in a crop body	#N/A	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.	  The view finder is very clear and has all basic settings info on the bottom border.  The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRs. Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger with a swing-out plug.  This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.	This body is rock solid and worthy of purchase for ANY and ALL people entering or needing an advanced DSLR camera.	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.
Model Name	model 
Expertise	great for intermediate shooters 	For a begginer in the professional photography area I definetly see an ocean of difference between the t2i and point and shoot cameras	upgraded from a Canon 20D 	update to the Nikon D3000 that a friend of mine has.	loved the guide mode when in doubt use guide	compared Canon EOS t2i with Nikon D3100 and finally I picked D3100	this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.	looking seriously at the Canon T2i and the Nikon D3100.  For the money the D3100 cant be beat.  What sold me was the guide mode
Featuures	 third child
Size Of Car Seat	e got this car seat after being very happy with my sons First Years Via car seat.  He was too big already for the extra padding but we had him back facing in this seat for about six months and now have him forward facing.  Hes liked both ways.  I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars.  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.
Overall Review	Overall we feel both our children are safe and would recommend this for long term use to friends and family members. We are contemplating buying two more so we have matching seats in both vehicles. They are worth every penny.	Love this car seat 	Great car seat	I absolutely love this car seat.	I highly recommend this it item.	For ease of use IQ form factor 	 Its an excellent camera for ANY level of photographer - beginner or experienced pro
Mesh Does Not Block Sun	cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly
Padding Protection	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to
Install Time	I love this chair. from when I opened the box and easly instaled it in the car. it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it. Im just thinking how happy she will be when she gets turned around in a few months. This will even work for newborns. if I had known that I would have gotten this a long time ago.
Adjustable	head rest is removable	back facing in this seat for about six months and now have him forward facing.  Hes liked both ways	No thread adjustable straps	Cant adjust strap length	base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels	next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base	higher weight limit	we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2	If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath 	This will even work for newborns	t is so high in fact that my 3 1/2 year old would still be able to be rear facing in this seat	height is adjustable 	rticulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible	.  They were pretty easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats.	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.
Size For Vehicle	purchased an extra one to have in his 06Nissan Frontier.	Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra 	pretty big	17in. wide infant car seat will do.  I believe this is the only one that fits our need	fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti.	could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives	They would have rested on the middle seats	Other than the issues in rear facing position this is a terrific seat.	The seat is gigantic.	has fit really well in all cars	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok	 little tricky to get it in. Tight fit	It is a big seat especially rear facing.	This seat would onlt fit in the 2nd row in the middle seating position so that it came up almost through the 2 front seats.	figure that a 17in. wide infant car seat will do	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.	 Although the seat is big	The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car. 	is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Tight fit 
Delivery	delivered super fast 	came within 2 business days even though I did standard shipping	car seat was delivered one day after I ordered it online.	The car seat was delivered one day after I ordered it online.	Both were delivered super fast and in perfect condition	came within 2 business days even though I did standard shipping	Excellent Product came within 2 business days even though I did standard shipping. Fit my newborns head with the extra cushion that came with it.  Loved the colors as well. Works perfectly with the Snap N Go stroller piece.	 delivered super fast	delivered one day	came within 2 business days even though I did standard shipping.	The car seat was delivered one day after I ordered it online.
Size For Ve	Very bulky
Size For V	would onlt fit in the 2nd row in the middle seating position so that it came up almost through the 2 front seats
Confort	seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature 	provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it
Features	The articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i.	looking seriously at the Canon T2i and the Nikon D3100.  For the money the D3100 cant be beat.  What sold me was the guide mode.	loved the guide mode	At a glance the camera has a good feel to it and overall has the same features as the T2i. The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.	No audio recording level adjust	the quality and sound you would have thought I used a real video camera and not one from a camera	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.	 It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels	It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick. One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers 	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small	head rest is removable	 Picture quality on this t2i is stunning so many features that it will take me months to figure out how to really get the most out of this camera.	I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.	The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRs. Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.	Disappointed they offer HDMI input but dont provided the cable.	right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  	the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.	Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.	  I also dont like some of the colors but that is personal preference.	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin.	No thread adjustable straps	Catch a lot of stuff under the padding	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.	It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. 	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.	trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level.	 has a higher weight limit as well. 	This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch	the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well. 	Loved the colors as well.	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.	essentially sitting on the hard plastic	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.	Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do.	head rest is removable	issues in rear facing position	I do NOT love cleaning it.	 holds a child up to 65lbs 	 visor and made the new base a	so much room	It is so easy to use and install 	 its a little difficult to install 	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge 	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.	  Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there	my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly	nstall was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow 	easy to install	big enough rear facing all the way until two years old which is what the apa recommends.	Big enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable straps	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.	comes with head/neck support cushion.	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.	It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels.	VERY easy to install base in car.	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti.	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of	is nice and heavy very durable	t has a higher weight limit as well	has very nice fabric	the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well.	extra cushion	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.	0	Ive purchased SnugRides in the past but this is the first one to have a serious lack of adequate padding.  Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEAT	Currently the product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat.  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.	and it fits just fine. 	 it is a big car seat	safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.	you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath 	easly instaled it in the car	it provides comfert for her	Easy to install 	Tight fit	my little ones head did not hang over once.	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards. They would have rested on the middle seats.  Other than that it is an awesome seat.	Some of the reviews complain that the Air  wings  cause problems for the kid seeing out but their height is adjustable AND I really like that when my daughter falls asleep they hold her head up so its not bobbing all over the place.	do not clean easily 	The seat is gigantic	easy to install	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this camera	. No wireless remote	What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots	lk Video I have taken alot for Football and I can not believe the quality and sound you would have thought I used a real video camera and not one from a camera it has surpassed what I have expected for a camera I am unbelievably happy with my purchase. Amazon thank you for the quick delivery yet again 	The pictures at full 18MP take a lot of memory. Better get some means of decent storage space 750-1TB hardrive will do	overall has the same features as the T2i	It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels	  The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car. I currently live in Japan where my hubby is currently stationed with the USMC.  We drive a large van similar to the old Chevy Astro van.  This seat would onlt fit in the 2nd row in the middle seating position so that it came up almost through the 2 front seats.  I doubt this seat would fit into any other position in any car.	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.	After searching and searching for a DSLR camera I had almost convinced myself of the T2i. I resisted and ended up waiting to purchase the T3i which was the best decision I made. At a glance the camera has a good feel to it and overall has the same features as the T2i.	direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep	between a t3i and Nikon 5100. everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera. the 600d has better continuous recording you have better manual capabilities. after a lot research i decided to go with the canon i went with a t3i and not a t2i for the flip around screen. 	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.	my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.	higher weight limit as well.	buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well	a very tight space to use the light blue head rests	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal.	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am sure the Nikon D5100 is a spectacular camera and it sports a larder image sensor than the Canon. I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.	 This camera is very tight on power consumption and has extreme accuracy when you set it for pinpoint focusing as I do for model and portrait photography work. The macro features are also on par with its more advanced and WAY higher priced big brothers to this camera. Now the 18.1MP sensor.....WOW  The image sizes of the CMOS sensor allow me great latitude in adjusting and tweaking my RAW images anytime I wish to be creative. If you are just starting out are bored with the out of date  point-n-shoot  want to upgrade your digital cams or you want to move from film to digital the T3i will not disappoint. Its an excellent camera for ANY level of photographer - beginner or experienced pro this camera really shines. Oh and the video.....Its 1080p HD nothing more needs to be said.	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take.	The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.	The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.	What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.  I have learned more using that mode in one week than from the weeks Ive spent reading books and websites.	The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.	I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.	I went to Best buy and tested out the Canon T2i the Nikon D5100 the Canon 60D and the Nikon D7000. After testing out all the products I came to the decision that the only cameras I liked that felt good in my hand were the Canon T2i Nikon D5100 and the Can T3i. I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal. 	The articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i. The prices were just too close to pass it up. 	Since initially posting Ive purchased these lenses Canon EF 75-300mm f/4-5.6 III USM Telephoto Zoom Lens for Canon SLR Cameras and Canon EF 50mm f/1.8 II Camera Lens and really like what the camera can do. Im more and more certain in the 5 stars I put on this review. Really love this camera	he 600d has better continuous recording you have better manual capabilities. after a lot research i decided to go with the canon i went with a t3i and not a t2i for the flip around screen. i shoot in awkward positions sometimes and it defiantly comes in handy.	It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels	Ill inform the public so they too can enjoy ALL of the features of this outstanding camera. The articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i. The prices were just too close to pass it up. Ill be adding more T3i and T2i cameras to my photo biz in the coming months as well as trying out the IS lenses. This camera is very tight on power consumption and has extreme accuracy when you set it for pinpoint focusing as I do for model and portrait photography work. The macro features are also on par with its more advanced and WAY higher priced big brothers to this camera. Now the 18.1MP sensor.....WOW  The image sizes of the CMOS sensor allow me great latitude in adjusting and tweaking my RAW images anytime I wish to be creative. If you are just starting out are bored with the out of date  point-n-shoot  want to upgrade your digital cams or you want to move from film to digital the T3i will not disappoint. Its an excellent camera for ANY level of photographer - beginner or experienced pro this camera really shines. Oh and the video.....Its 1080p HD nothing more needs to be said. Canon yo
Hivemind	79 of 81 people found the following review helpful	0	0	246 of 269 people found the following review helpful	95 of 97 people found the following review helpful	0	0	3 of 3 people found the following review helpful	0	0
Feature Comparison	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.	Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3i	No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light painting	 I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison	a lot of my review is based on comparison to Nikon.	Well I have since done some research and participated in forums and found out there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.	Apparently this is a discussed firmware issue but Nikon claimed they hadnt heard about it when I messaged them...  Well go take a look at the forums out there it is an issue for those of us who expect quality shots in all modes. 	the guide mode	1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.	1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.
User Credibility	Especially if this is your first DSLR	alot	LOL	My friends son is Captain of his High School Football team	in my opinion	if you do skate videos/photos	check me out brittneysheystudios.com	I am person that is making a transition from an old point and shoot to this DLSR	Craig Benham - Photographic Adventures Ltd 	Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. 	Being a beginner in photography	 Amazon prime helped to get the delivery in a very shortest period which was not imaginable.	since it was out of stock at Amazon and also with 10	A Kids Review	I have a 2003 Maxima	my son LOVES it 	Hyundai Sonata	  Both were delivered super fast and in perfect condition.	Amazon Verified Purchase	came within 2 business days even though I did standard shipping.	  I havent tested it out yet 	The car seat was delivered one day after I ordered it online. Which was outstanding. I took it out of the box and my 2 year old became giddy with excitement. 
User Comparison	I was used to using point-and-shoots and small flip style video cameras to make my videos.	Its my first digital SLR Ive had it for about a year and I love it.	I had almost convinced myself of the T2i. I resisted and ended up waiting to purchase the T3i which was the best decision I made.	verses his carrier car seat	I did a lot of research on safety price etc. before buying this one.	I chose it because it has the highest safety rating.
User Opinion	I have no regrets with my 17-55mm purchase.	If you want to really get serious about photography or video making then get THIS camera.	3.0 out of 5 stars 	I have only scratched the surface of my purchase	He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.	it was rated 	A few things I dont like but not many	0	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.	 seemed very comfortable in it 	it took me a bit to figure out how to work it	its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.	shoots great in low lighting settings. all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels natural. 
Beginner Experience	For a begginer in the professional photography area I definetly see an ocean of difference between the t2i and point and shoot cameras.	Being a beginner in photographyi took much time to decide on models between T2iT3i and 60D. Atlast i bought T3i and i am very much satisfied with the product	  It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR
Lighting	shoots great in low lighting settings	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light painting	 shoots great in low lighting settings
Child Comfort	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable	My child is so comfortable	I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.	there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.	he biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.	my son LOVES it 	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.	After extensive research and practically being settled on the Britax Advocate I feel like you get what you pay for I was told about this car seat and figured I would give it a try.  Worse case I would just use it in my husbands car and then order the Britax for my car.  No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it 	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.	its very comfortable	My child is so comfortable
Installation (Ease Of Use)	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily 
Stills	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MP	18MP Stills
Happiness With One Over Other	Decided to get t2i over t3i. . .and happy I did
Value/Price	Great value for the price
Audience	or needing an advanced DSLR camera.	you have better manual capabilitie	 Being a beginner in photographyi took much time to decide on models between T2iT3i and 60D. Atlast i bought T3i and i am very much satisfied with the product. 	not a professional 	erfect for a beginne
HDMI Capability	Disappointed they offer HDMI input but dont provided the cable
Automodes	Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode	 I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash
Usability 	Ergonomically the D3100 is the easier to use compared to the D5100 that had to relinquish four buttons to make room for the swivel screen of the D5100. 	For ease of use IQ form factor it wont weigh me down etc. I feel as if the D3100 was a great purchase. Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup.	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.  The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. 	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit	The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode.
Usability Overall	though an avid photography enthusiast for many years theres not a lot for me to compare the D3100 to. However my own experience in the short week since I purchased the camera has been extremely gratifying. For ease of use IQ form factor it wont weigh me down etc. I feel as if the D3100 was a great purchase. Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup.
Adjustability	base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels	head rest is removable 
Customer Satisfaction	Average Customer Review	 customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like	As a first time Digital SLR buyer and user I love this camera and would highly recommend it to others.	20 of 20 people found the following review helpful	VERY PLEASED   	Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers 	decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep	This body is rock solid and worthy of purchase for ANY and ALL people entering or needing an advanced DSLR camera.
Satisfaction	great purchase for our family.	he correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. 	Seriously disappointed with this carseat 
Instructions	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions. I have a 2003 Maxima which has a slight bump in the middle	he instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. 	VERY easy to install base in car.	 I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.	instructions were a little hard for me to follow	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.	The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow 	guide mode
Adaptability 	  Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode so it acts like a point and shoot.	Works perfectly with the Snap N Go stroller piece.	 user-friendly controls
Sum Of Negatives	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras	Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.
Camera Body	ave yourself the headache of working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body.  Pair it with the lens of your choice
T2 Vs T3	whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.	he t2i over t3i because I didnt feel I would need to use the movable lcd screen 	2i is the one I will keep.  Why	T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only	same features as the T2i. The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen
Develop Over Time	Starting off on full auto moving through the different pre-determined settings sports portrait landscape etc and the into the manual modes.  I figure Im another year or so with this and Ill be ready to upgrade to the 7D and pass this on to my daughter.
Macro	macro features are also on par with its more advanced and WAY higher priced big brothers to this camera
Video Zoom External Flash	Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.
Too High ISO 	there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photos
Sum Advantages	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.
Guide	What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.  I have learned more using that mode in one week than from the weeks Ive spent reading books and websites.
Live Picture	Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras
Price Value	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money. 
Battery Charge	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday	This camera is very tight on power consumption and has extreme accuracy when you set it for pinpoint focusing as I do for model and portrait photography work. The macro features are also on par with its more advanced and WAY higher priced big brothers to this camera. 
Model	I did alot of research I was going to buy a less expensive model but after all the research of this cameras features I just couldnt so I worked some more overtime so I could afford this camera.	Canon EOS Rebel T2i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-inch LCD and and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS Lens	Canon EOS Rebel T3i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-Inch Clear View Vari-Angle LCD and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS Lens	#N/A	#N/A	Nikon D3100 16.2MP CMOS Digital SLR Camera with 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 AF-S DX VR Nikkor Zoom Lens
T2i	It is very user Friendly and Fun to use	Camera is just amazing	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  Why
Ergonomic Arrangement	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use
SLR	The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLR
T3i	The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not.	Im a film student and was trying to decide between a t3i and Nikon 5100. everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera. the 600d has better continuous recording you have better manual capabilities. after a lot research i decided to go with the canon
Subject	I am not a professional so please dont take my opinion as someone acting as an authority on this subject
D5100	Ergonomically the D3100 is the easier to use compared to the D5100 that had to relinquish four buttons to make room for the swivel screen of the D5100
Recommendations	0	- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for 
Maintenance	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily 	Material is easy to clean	here is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come off	Catch a lot of stuff under the padding
Comfort Safety	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.	its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.
Install Use	  The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well.
Ease Of Acess	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of 
Attachments	 the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily 
Target user type	  It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.	The T3i is out now so thats probably a better bet but I love the fact that I can slowly advance my knowledge of the SLR usage as I go.  Starting off on full auto moving through the different pre-determined settings sports portrait landscape etc and the into the manual modes.  I figure Im another year or so with this and Ill be ready to upgrade to the 7D and pass this on to my daughter.	This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.	 If you are just starting out are bored with the out of date  point-n-shoot  want to upgrade your digital cams or you want to move from film to digital the T3i will not disappoint	As a first time Digital SLR buyer and user I love this camera and would highly recommend it to others. 
External Flash	The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.	The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.	The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.
Learning	 researched for several weeks looking seriously at the Canon T2i and the Nikon D3100.  For the money the D3100 cant be beat.  What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.
Britax Car Seats	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much .
Instal	its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick	VERY easy to install base in car
Smaller Cars	A few things I dont like but not many.  The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there
Car Seat	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.
Infant Car Seat	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base.
Security	t holds the girls very secure and they love the
Seat	Now for the cons.  The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car.
Clean	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.	Catch a lot of stuff under the padding	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin	  My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.	All that to say - I still love a lot of things about this carseat but I do NOT love cleaning it.	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come off	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily	  So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.  Im having quite an interesting time getting the nasty puke smell out of it.
Backward Facing	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards. They would have rested on the middle seats.  Other than that it is an awesome seat	My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing. Between my 3 kids Ive been through about 6 different convertible car seats in the past 8 years and this one was by far the most difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt.
Space Occupied	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around	They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.	 Yes it is a big car seat
Comfort - Material	It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I 	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.
Comfort - Space	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.  Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son	I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat.	she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.
Comfort - Padding	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding
Size Of Images	Better get some means of decent storage space 750-1TB hardrive will do
Quality Of Photos	Apparently this is a discussed firmware issue but Nikon claimed they hadnt heard about it when I messaged them...
Uv Filter And Battery	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for 
Repeat	Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for. 
Info	 Ill be adding more T3i and T2i cameras to my photo biz in the coming months	  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.
Memory And Format	  Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or more.  I purchased two Transcend 8GB Class 10 SDHC Card TS8GSDHC10 from Amazon and so far these have been amazing.  I have the camera saving in both RAW and JPEG until I can get familiar enough to switch completely to RAW.  Saving in this format is 20MB a picture and this card has no trouble keeping up.
Beginner Friendly	Excellent Beginners DSLR	Its my first digital SLR Ive had it for about a year and I love it.	not a professional level SLR	want to move from film to digital	The camera itself is very user friendly	as a first time user I am happy	Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price 	 I have had it for a few months now and I get alot of great compliments on my pictures they are professional looking my family and friends say and these are just on the automatic setting LOL wait until I read more and experiment	 For a begginer in the professional photography area I definetly see an ocean of difference between the t2i and point and shoot cameras. Picture quality on this t2i is stunning so many features that it will take me months to figure out how to really get the most out of this camera.	The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not. I am a person to read through and learn the various features the camera has to offer.	I wanted to start digital photography as a hobby so I decided to buy a nicer camera.  After reading many reviews and comparisons I decided on this camera as it is the update to the Nikon D3000 that a friend of mine has.  They love their camera so I figured this was a good choice
Video Recording	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion 	For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  Why	#N/A	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING	 The best part was the 1080P video	60fps HD Recording
Burst Rate	3.7 max burst rate	3.7 max burst rate	3.7 max burst rate not very fast at all
Crop	7D in a crop body
Overall Performance	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.	I upgraded from nikon D50 to this. So of course the pictures are much much better.In hindsight The nikon D5100 has a better larger DX sensor vs canon APS sized sensor sensor. So less noise on the Nikon.Also I think that video modes in SLR cameras are fairly useless unless you are good with manual focussing and use the tripod. BTW the lens IS does work in video mode.	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iCons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light painting	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.	If youd like to see the work I have done with my t2i and 50mm. . check me out brittneysheystudios.com	there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3i	I used the same exact settings on both cameras large Jpeg P-mode Quick AF.  Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.	  I love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy.  It looks like it should be but does not feel like it is.  It appears to be a very sturdy camera.	- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.	1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.	 Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.	The bottom line is that images from the D3100 are indistinguishable from the more expensive models.  Ergonomically the D3100 is the easier to use compared to the D5100 that had to relinquish four buttons to make room for the swivel screen of the D5100.  Following is a link to my review of the D3100	I am very pleased that I purchased this car seat.	this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.
Aperture	8-135mm 55-200mm or 75-300mm
Wireless	The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly	o wireless remote.	N	The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly	No wireless remote	No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.
Response	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.
Settings	Same problem.  Well I have since done some research and participated in forums and found out there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.	I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.	No audio recording level adjust	he reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. 
Display	T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen	No Flip-out LCD	 The articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i.	The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash	Low resolution of LCD screen.	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.
Opinion	I am not a professional so please dont take my opinion as someone acting as an authority on this subject
Particulars	 i would recommend this camera over any one on the market and shoots great in low lighting settings.
User Freindly	It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.  It is very user Friendly and Fun to use.
Software	Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes.	My only issue with the T3i concerns the GRID functions. These work only in LIVE VIEW MODE as Ive found so far. As soon as you move up to manual for full control you lose the grid I use the 3x3 which helps me set my composition.	.  Apparently this is a discussed firmware issue
User Comfort	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable and appears to be very safe	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure	 it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.	ery nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy	No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.
Value For Money	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable	It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much 	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.	worth every penny	Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit
Adjust	but I do NOT love cleaning it	you can recline it at 3 different levels	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position
Install-ability 	We drive a large van similar to the old Chevy Astro van.  This seat would onlt fit in the 2nd row in the middle seating position so that it came up almost through the 2 front seats.  I doubt this seat would fit into any other position in any car
Seat Size	It is a big seat especially rear facing	The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra. As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once	 Im sure this is safe enough but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient. Even though my son isnt quiet 1 yet he was ready for a more toddler friendly seat.	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car	seat is big 
Installability	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly	Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick
Convertability	 Im just thinking how happy she will be when she gets turned around in a few months.
Brand	. Definitely worth doing business with companies
Taking Pictures In Auto Mode	pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the cam
Same As Above	 noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.	video manual focus on the Canon and als
How Light It Is	not very heavy.
High Resolution	 Now the 18.1MP sensor	 Now the 18.1MP sensor
Noise	The nikon D5100 has a better larger DX sensor vs canon APS sized sensor sensor. So less noise on the Nikon.	So less noise on the Nikon.	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.	The nikon D5100 has a better larger DX sensor vs canon APS sized sensor sensor. So less noise on the Nikon.
Pic	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.	#N/A
Design And Operation	. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.
No Manual Focus	 video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am 	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras
IS	it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i. 	The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.	ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.
GRID	My only issue with the T3i concerns the GRID functions.	My only issue with the T3i concerns the GRID functions. These work only in LIVE VIEW MODE as Ive found so far. As soon as you move up to manual for full control you lose the grid I use the 3x3 which helps me set my composition. Yes I can use my eye to place an imaginary grid in the viewfinder but WHY when one is readily available.	GRID functions. These work only in LIVE VIEW MODE as Ive found so far. As soon as you move up to manual for full control you lose the grid I use the 3x3 which helps me set my composition. Yes I can use my eye to place an imaginary grid in the viewfinder but WHY when one is readily available.	My only issue with the T3i concerns the GRID functions. These work only in LIVE VIEW MODE as Ive found so far. As soon as you move up to manual for full control you lose the grid I use the 3x3 which helps me set my composition. Yes I can use my eye to place an imaginary grid in the viewfinder but WHY when one is readily available	My only issue with the T3i concerns the GRID functions. 	As soon as you move up to manual for full control you lose the grid I use the 3x3 which helps me set my composition.
Can Focus Yourself	As soon as you move up to manual for full control
Battery Life Long	 Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger with a swing-out plug.  This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.
Build Of The Camera Is Good	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the
Vedio	No autofocus when zooming while taking video
Focus - Lighting 	2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.	he T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light painting	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.
Sturdiness - Weight 	Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day.
Lens/Range 	 purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.	everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera. the 600d has better continuous recording you have better manual capabilities. after a lot research i decided to go with the canon i went with a t3i and not a t2i for the flip around screen. i shoot in awkward positions sometimes and it defiantly comes in handy.	 went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal. The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am sure the Nikon D5100 is a spectacular camera and it sports a larder image sensor than the Canon. I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.	I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.
Auto Picture	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.	I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode so it acts like a point and shoot.
Extras	he biggest is this darn sun viso	Disappointed they offer HDMI input but dont provided the cable.
User-friendly	Its an excellent camera for ANY level of photographer - beginner or experienced pro	user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for	Relatively light	Make sure to get UV filter	The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode	The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip	The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRs	Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability
Useability	What sold me was the guide mode.
Screen Picture Quality	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixel
Function	The T2i is FAST	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.
Facing Rear	 extremely difficult to install it rear facing
Keeping Child Cool	This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped in
"Size, Too Big"	  The seat is gigantic.
Installation Easy	easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats. Other than the issues in rear facing position this is a terrific seat.	tall was exteremly easy and it fit well in bot
Delivery Time	delivered one day after I ordered it online. Which was outstanding
Comfort And Safety	Normally he literally fights and struggles when it is time to get into the the car but not this time. I love this chair  My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.
Fits In Even Small Cars	Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do. Again my little girl likes being in the seat and able to look out of the windows at the world around her
Good For Even Newborns And Up	This will even work for newborns. if I had known that I would have gotten this a long time ago.
Kids Love It	 new saftey 1st car seat she loves it
Misleading	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.
Removable Fabric	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.
Padding Not Good	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.
Sun Visor Made Of Mesh	he biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I
Safe And Adjustable	side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. I highly recommend this it item
Good Price	 price is very reasonable
Overall Size (Fit In Car) 	The seat is gigantic	Awesome but a little big	Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do.
Nice Material	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby
Manufacturing	nice fabric thats soft to the touch
Easy To Clean 	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come off	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. 
Size Too Bulky	Very bulky. 
Instructions Too Complicated	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow remember now I am the grandma and over 50 so please keep it simple   I did end up having my son install it for me.  The chair is excellent quality.
Price For Quality 	the price is very reasonable	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.	wallet friendly	I found this to be a great deal for the price.
Child Comfortable	He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here
Good Deal For The Price	I found this to be a great deal for the price
Rear-facing	My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing.	The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car.	I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit.	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards.	If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.	I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position	seat was comfortable looking and big enough rear facing all the way until two years old	 If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.
Headrest Removable	head rest is removable
Iso	I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for. 
Sd Card Price	Nikon suggests certain memory cards that they certified to use with this camera.  Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or more.  I purchased two Transcend 8GB Class 10 SDHC Card TS8GSDHC10 from Amazon and so far these have been amazing.  I have the camera saving in both RAW and JPEG until I can get familiar enough to switch completely to RAW.  Saving in this format is 20MB a picture and this card has no trouble keeping up.
Just An Upgrade	Im a film student and was trying to decide between a t3i and Nikon 5100. everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera. the 600d has better continuous recording you have better manual capabilities. after a lot research i decided to go with the canon i went with a t3i and not a t2i for the flip around screen. i shoot in awkward positions sometimes and it defiantly comes in handy. i would recommend this camera over any one on the market and shoots great in low lighting settings. all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels natural. my favorite thing is the dedicated iso button making it easy to change quickly.
Additional Feature	I will make a brief of my own experience of this camera to DSLR beginnersPros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.	articulating LCD screen	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iCons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light painting	T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.
Built In Flash Sucks	Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras
Worth The Price	Excellent camera though a bit expensive - worth every penny.
Compactability	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.
User Experience	guide mode	Its an excellent camera for ANY level of photographer - beginner or experienced pro this camera really shines. 	my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here
Good Overall Few Cons	I bought this seat for my son who is now 8 months old.  I got it because I already have the Safety 1st Air Protect On Board 35 SE Infant Car Seat which I love.  My son is still in his infant car seat but not for much longer.  I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit.  It is so high in fact that my 3 1/2 year old would still be able to be rear facing in this seat.  Rear facing is the safest way for small children to travel when in a car.  After purchasing this seat we took it for a test drive literally with the baby in it.  He seemed very comfortable in it and I liked that the extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.  I love the no rethread harness and although it took me a bit to figure out how to work it it is still fairly simple and much preferrable over the rethread type.Now for the cons.  The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car. I currently live in Japan where my hubby is currently stationed with the USMC.  We drive a large van similar to the old Chevy Astro van.  This seat would onlt fit in the 2nd row in the middle seating position so that it came up almost through the 2 front seats.  I doubt this seat would fit into any other position in any car.  My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing. Between my 3 kids Ive been through about 6 different convertible car seats in the past 8 years and this one was by far the most difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt.  At one point or another Ive had to install all of my previous car seats rear facing with the vehicle belt.  The instructions say to lift the seat pad when threading the belt through which I did but then once the seat was installed I couldnt get the pad back down over the seat where it was against the seat back of the actual vehicle seat.  So I had to uninstall it and reinstall it with the pad in its proper place making it very difficult to do.All in all I would definitely recommend this seat to others.
Sophistication	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this camera	Mic input
Recieved For Shower	We asked for this as a Baby Shower gift back in 2010 when my daughter was born. Started to use it in Feb of this year my daughter is on the small side so she just outgrew the infant seat and LOVE IT  Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.We ordered another one for this review for my MILs car since she cares for my daughter 2 days a week. Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do. Again my little girl likes being in the seat and able to look out of the windows at the world around her. I would recommend this product to anyone I knew who was in need of a good car seat.
Easy Instilation	 love this chair. from when I opened the box and easly instaled it in the car. it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it. Im just thinking how happy she will be when she gets turned around in a few months. This will even work for newborns. if I had known that I would have gotten this a long time ago.
A Bit Inconvenient Bulky	We are using this as a rear facing seat in our Chevy Malibu and it fits just fine. Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Im glad we had the Chicco Keyfit 30 when our guy was an infant. Im sure this is safe enough but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient. Even though my son isnt quiet 1 yet he was ready for a more toddler friendly seat. This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him. I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Overall Im very satisfied with my purchase.
Contradiction	Currently the product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat.  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.
Good Shipping	Excellent Product came within 2 business days even though I did standard shipping. Fit my newborns head with the extra cushion that came with it.  Loved the colors as well. Works perfectly with the Snap N Go stroller piece.
Cant Put Behind Drivers Seat	 have been using the graco snug ride 30 metropolis for 2 months now. So far I am only satisfied with this car seat.pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.  light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.I think I would purchase this car seat again if they changed the visor and made the new base available.
Just As Pictured	 absolutely love this car seat. It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. I highly recommend this it item.
Foits With 2 Other Seats	In anticipation of the arrival of our third child we bought this car seat to use in our sedan.  We didnt want to buy a new car or invest in all new car seats to make that happen.  We started shopping around and figure that a 17in. wide infant car seat will do.  I believe this is the only one that fits our need.  We are able to use our Britax Marathon a Graco booster and this infant car seat all in one row.  This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.
Purchasing In Future	I have a four year old and a two year old and they both love their true fit seats. Mommy loves them too. They are easy to install especially as compared to the graco one we bought first. The no rethread harness is awesome. The seat was comfortable looking and big enough rear facing all the way until two years old which is what the apa recommends.ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Overall we feel both our children are safe and would recommend this for long term use to friends and family members. We are contemplating buying two more so we have matching seats in both vehicles. They are worth every penny.
Not Simple Instructions	I chose it because it has the highest safety rating. The instructions were a little hard for me to follow remember now I am the grandma and over 50 so please keep it simple   I did end up having my son install it for me.  The chair is excellent quality.
Wallet Friendly	Worse case I would just use it in my husbands car and then order the Britax for my car.  No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.  I am going to order another one of these for my husbands car.  It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product 
Experience	please their customers	 is so easy to use and install
Feedback	have friends who love it
Specifications	Currently the product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat.  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.	Im glad to have this camera it has everything comparable to canon t2  1080p movie 14.2 mp 502g light weight. 3 inch screen .	Canon EOS Rebel T2i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-inch LCD and and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS Lens
Price/availability	I got it for 699  including the VR 55-200mm + camera bag with DVD 
Feature Vs Price	 If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.
Cleanliness	Catch a lot of stuff under the padding	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.  Thats not so bad since she did not puke on that part except that I was not aware that the headrest pad is attached to another pad that continues down the back behind the main pad   So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.  Im having quite an interesting time getting the nasty puke smell out of it.
Cleanliness & Convenience	the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand
Comfort & Safety	very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty
Comfort/Safety	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.	she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it	This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch	Ive purchased SnugRides in the past but this is the first one to have a serious lack of adequate padding.  Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEAT	he biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.
Overall Usage	Very satisfied with this product	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Overall Im very satisfied with my purchase.	ros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.  light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.I think I would purchase this car seat again if they changed the visor and made the new base available.	A good car seat that fits our needs	This is a great car seat. I did a lot of research on safety price etc. before buying this one.	Excellent camera though a bit expensive - worth every penny.	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light 	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.  I conducted countless hours of research on Canons Nikons and even Sonys.	 If you are just starting out are bored with the out of date  point-n-shoot  want to upgrade your digital cams or you want to move from film to digital the T3i will not disappoint. Its an excellent camera for ANY level of photographer - beginner or experienced pro this camera really shines.	i would recommend this camera over any one on the market and shoots great in low lighting settings. all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels natural. my favorite thing is the dedicated iso button making it easy to change quickly.	Being new to the DSLR world though an avid photography enthusiast for many years theres not a lot for me to compare the D3100 to. However my own experience in the short week since I purchased the camera has been extremely gratifying.	i have probably saved  200-300  i would recommend this to anybody i know who is into DSLR. NIKON  way to go  
Rankings	I purchased this seat because it was rated 
Need To Buy Extra Parts	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for 
Performance (speed)	T2i is FAST	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance
Good Camera/lens Combo	stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens combo
Fast Startup	Fast start up speed
Audio Recording	No audio recording level adjust	No audio recording level adjust	No audio recording level adjust	No audio recording level adjust	No audio recording level adjust	No audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light painting
Comfortable Usage	Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.	felt good in my hand
Heavily Researched	I am a person to research and research again
Menu System	menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use	The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use.
Voice Recording	No audio recording level adjust
Same As Earlier Version	has a good feel to it and overall has the same features as the T2i.
1080p Video Quality	The best part was the 1080P video.
Shoot Modes	just not in the auto point and shoot modes.	Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes.
Good Video	The best part was the 1080P video.
Low Res	 Low resolution of LCD screen.
Components	pretty easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.	base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels	comes with head/neck support cushion	No thread adjustable straps	son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly.  It isnt hard to get back on and it is nice that it pops off so it can go on either side but it is annoying when he gets it off and starts throwing it around.	head rest is removable	14.2 mp 502g light weight. 3 inch screen	guide mode	No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.	guide mode	The pictures at full 18MP take a lot of memory	No Flip-out LCD	7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.	rticulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i
Image	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.	White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lens
LCD Screen Articulated	No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menu	The articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i.	I went to Best buy and tested out the Canon T2i the Nikon D5100 the Canon 60D and the Nikon D7000. After testing out all the products I came to the decision that the only cameras I liked that felt good in my hand were the Canon T2i Nikon D5100 and the Can T3i. I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal.
Overall Value	This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.	the other contenders were the T3i and T3 close  range and after careful though on ISO performance MPs price and features I decided that this model offered me the best balance.	I was used to using point-and-shoots and small flip style video cameras to make my videos.  I looked into DSLRs and really wanted a canon.  YOU CANT GO WRONG WITH THIS CAMERA   It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.
Upgrades	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses
Auto Mode - Quality	there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photos.	I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A 
Auto Mode - Focus	 Very fast auto focus on shooting.	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.	 No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.
Easy Install	rom when I opened the box and easly instaled it in the ca	VERY easy to install base in car. 	but it was easy if you read the instructions.
Cheap Material	t cover is made of a material where
Large Size	The size is pretty big
Seat Cover Material	seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy	So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.	difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick. One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it 	 One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy. 	  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars. Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. 	While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh.
Cupholder	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box.	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.
Large Seat	Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra.
Delivery From Seller	elivered one day after I ordered it online
Ease To Clean	Hard to clean 
Ease Of Cleaning	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come off	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin.	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily	 Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin.	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.	he  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off	Catch a lot of stuff under the padding
Comfort - Breathability	This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped in
Comfort - Wings	He seemed very comfortable in it and I liked that the extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.
Harness	I love the no rethread harness and although it took me a bit to figure out how to work it it is still fairly simple and much preferrable over the rethread type	adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats	The no rethread harness is awesome
Height/Weight Limits	  I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit.  It is so high in fact that my 3 1/2 year old would still be able to be rear facing in this seat.
Comfort - Heat	May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.
Cust Service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge 
No Autofocus	Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras
Foccus in Live Mode Slow	Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras
Auto Focus Slow	 video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am 
Lense	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.	Canon EOS Rebel T2i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-inch LCD and and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS Lens
Articulating	The articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i
Mango	bought
Pro & Con	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOther Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for 	ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.
Pro And Cons	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.
Overall Review 	VERY PLEASED	I love this chair.
Ease Of Use/installation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.	 and easly instaled it in the car.	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of
Cons	The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car.	there is absolutely NO padding.
Pro	 It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. 	 very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well. Overall a very nice car seat for the price. This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.
Number Of People Who Already Purchased	4.5 out of 5 stars
Number Of Positive Reviews/negative	259 Reviews	259 Reviews
Delays In Continuous Mode	he T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.
Built In Focus Motor	built-in focus motor.
Denial Of A Ongoing Problem	  Apparently this is a discussed firmware issue but Nikon claimed they hadnt heard about it
1080P Video Speed	1080P video
Photos	Takes good quality of videos.
Seat Quaity	If you see the video when shopping for a car seat I found this to be a great deal for the price. I understand each car seat has to meet standards but I have been please with this one and my husband just purchased an extra one to have in his 06Nissan Frontier.	 have a four year old and a two year old and they both love their true fit seats. Mommy loves them too. They are easy to install especially as compared to the graco one we bought first. The no rethread harness is awesome. The seat was comfortable looking and big enough rear facing all the way until two years old which is what the apa recommends.	We are using this as a rear facing seat in our Chevy Malibu and it fits just fine. Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Im glad we had the Chicco Keyfit 30 when our guy was an infant. Im sure this is safe enough but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient. Even though my son isnt quiet 1 yet he was ready for a more toddler friendly seat. This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him. I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.	I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.
Overall Quality Of Seat	Love this car seat   After extensive research and practically being settled on the Britax Advocate I feel like you get what you pay for I was told about this car seat and figured I would give it a try.  Worse case I would just use it in my husbands car and then order the Britax for my car.  No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.  I am going to order another one of these for my husbands car.  It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product 	I love this chair. from when I opened the box and easly instaled it in the car. it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it. Im just thinking how happy she will be when she gets turned around in a few months. This will even work for newborns. if I had known that I would have gotten this a long time ago.
Easy 	It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product 	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well.
Fits Seats With No Problem	It fit fine and snug as can be
More Room Than Carrier Car Seat	 has so much room verses his carrier car seat
Rated #1 By Consumer Reports	 rated 
Replacement At No Charge	seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material 
Weight Limit Not Correctly Stated	he seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.
Easy To Clean	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. All I can say is this was a great purchase for our famil
Comfort 	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her.
Safety With Rear Seat Faceing	Other than the issues in rear facing position this is a terrific seat.
Installation Rear Seating	difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt. 
U	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.
Soft	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.
Safety 	hen you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level	seat. I did a lot of research on safety price etc. before buying this one.  I actually bought two one for my car and one for my husbands car.  We were very pleased with it.  Both were delivered super fast and in perfect condition.  Ins
Visor Does Not Block Any Sun	I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out.
No Padding- Comfort	where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.
Meets Standards	 I understand each car seat has to meet standards
Abilities	slow motion	articulating screen
Delay	It makes a huge difference knowing you can press the shutter and the camera will instantly take a picture.  The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.	 the delays are still there.	Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.
Structure	body is rock solid and worthy of purchase for ANY and ALL people entering or needing an advanced DSLR camera	not very heavy
Camera Structure	flip out LCD screen
Mode	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for
Image Stabilazation	Built in image stabilizer 18-55mm lens
Autofocus	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.	Very fast auto focus on shooting.	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.	 Very fast auto focus on shooting.	 No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow	Very fast auto focus on shooting.	#N/A	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.	the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for	No autofocus when zooming while taking video	Very fast auto focus on shooting.	wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras	No autofocus when zooming while taking video	Auto focus in  live view  mode	Very fast auto focus on shooti	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras	you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.
Changing Settings Maunally	 The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode
Articulating Screen	he articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i
High Iso Levels In Auto Mode	there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting
Low Resolution Led Screen	 Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels
Comfortness	son fits comfortably in it and has so much room	comfortable	material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby
Kid Likes It	my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here
Rate	 rated 
Seat Cover	seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy
Car Fits	 fit really well in all cars	fit well in both of our cars
Tight Space	its a very tight space to use the light blue head rests
Head Rest Is Removable	the head rest is removable
National Rating	 
Size Of Seat Is Fairly Large	The size is pretty big
Installation Process	Easy to install	ERY easy to install base in car
Washing Most Of It	there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash
Test	used 
Beginner's Lens	 Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses
Comparison To T2i	 At a glance the camera has a good feel to it and overall has the same features as the T2i. The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menu. The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not.	and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep	The articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i.	 At a glance the camera has a good feel to it and overall has the same features as the T2i. The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. 	 Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. 	 has everything comparable to canon t2  1080p movie 14.2 mp 502g light weight. 3 inch screen 	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.	 At a glance the camera has a good feel to it and overall has the same features as the T2i. The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take.
Auto	Auto mode so it acts like a point and shoot	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for
Image Quality	Picture quality on this t2i is stunning	  Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera.  Ive taken some stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens combo.	I will not go into extended technical aspects as I am person that is making a transition from an old point and shoot to this DLSR. Camera is just amazing. For a begginer in the professional photography area I definetly see an ocean of difference between the t2i and point and shoot cameras.	The T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to.  	This body is rock solid and worthy of purchase for ANY and ALL people entering or needing an advanced DSLR camera.	 I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer. The quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it. I also took a picture of a cherry tree that was about 30 yards away and then opened it up in Photoshop zoomed in and could see cherries that I could not even see with my eyes from the spot where I took the picture.	The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A 	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.	  The bottom line is that images from the D3100 are indistinguishable from the more expensive models.
Easy To Use Easy Learning Curve	Its my first digital SLR Ive had it for about a year and I love it.  The T3i is out now so thats probably a better bet but I love the fact that I can slowly advance my knowledge of the SLR usage as I go.  Starting off on full auto moving through the different pre-determined settings sports portrait landscape etc and the into the manual modes.
File Size And Resolution	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MP
Build Quality	. Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day	ut I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.
Automode	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  T	I took some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very good. Also i loved the guide mode when in doubt use guide. The best part was the 1080P video. I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good and my wife who is very difficult to please liked it so much that she said that next time we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100  I guess now i can finally retire my mini DV video camera.
Camparison To Buffer Speed Of T21	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  Why
Flip Out Viewfinder Versus Standard On T2i	The articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i.
Options Available In Video Mode	I think that video modes in SLR cameras are fairly useless unless you are good with manual focussing and use the tripod. BTW the lens IS does work in video mode.
Poor Iso Choice In Auto Mode	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A 
Value 	For ease of use IQ form factor it wont weigh me down etc. I feel as if the D3100 was a great purchase. Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup.	Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera.  Ive taken some stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens combo.  Save yourself the headache of working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body.  Pair it with the lens of your choice but I have no regrets with my 17-55mm purchase.	I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.	 At a glance the camera has a good feel to it and overall has the same features as the T2i. The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take.	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this camera
Comparison Of Lcd Screen To T2i	 Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. 
Consumer Reports	 	rated 	I purchased this seat because it was rated 
Transition	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddler
Comfort And Ease Of Install	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.
Comfort Of Child And Parent	this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.
Instuction Materials	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow
Comfort Of Child	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.
Long Term Adjustability	They were pretty easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats
Style And Function	This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.
Amount Or Placement Of Padding	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.
Ease Of Getting Child In And Out	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable
Picture Taking	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance
Video Performance	60fps HD Recording	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video
For Beginners	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and
"\Prosumer\"""""	It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR
Different Kinds Of Photos	 I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing
Skate/surf Video	It is GREAT for skate/surf video because of
Zoom	f you are looking to do mainly surf but this camera BODY ONLY + a 18-135mm 55-200mm or 75-300mm	I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer. 	#N/A	#N/A	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.	 I also took a picture of a cherry tree that was about 30 yards away and then opened it up in Photoshop zoomed in and could see cherries that I could not even see with my eyes from the spot where I took the picture	 I am impressed with the lens that comes with the camera for the wide angle aspect of it due to a lot of places I shoot pictures there are a lot of people and requires me to get close to get the shot I want	doesnt zoom far enough at all	 I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer.
Macro Shots	high quality photos of fairly small works of sculpture art using the Canon 60mm macro lens
Picture Preview	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow
Beginner's Toy	Excellent Beginners DSLR
Dark Venues	very specific use for it which is wedding photography and on dark venues the extra steps with the high ISO combined with large apertures on lenses provided the best combination for my needs.
Price Saving Kit	And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.
Low Light Video	 shoots great in low lighting settings
Portability	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens	Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day	extremely mobile. I can just flip open my tripod lock and GO	not very heavy.  It looks like it should be but does not feel like it is.  It appears to be a very sturdy camera	it wont weigh me down	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.	Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.	Light weight great body design.	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.
First Time Users	For ease of use IQ form factor it wont weigh me down etc. I feel as if the D3100 was a great purchase	I am not a professional so please dont take my opinion as someone acting as an authority on this subject but as a first time user I am happy and hope my review will help any other first time digital camera fans out there.  Thanks.
Slower Than T2i	#N/A
Sculptural Art	camera first of all to take high quality photos of fairly small works of sculpture art
Saving Formats	I have the camera saving in both RAW and JPEG until I can get familiar enough to switch completely to RAW
Auto Foucus	Very fast auto focus on shooting.
LCD Display	Low resolution of LCD screen
Sensors	. The macro features are also on par with its more advanced and WAY higher priced big brothers to this camera. Now the 18.1MP sensor.....WOW  The image sizes of the CMOS sensor allow me great latitude in adjusting and tweaking my RAW images anytime I wish to be creative.
Cable	Disappointed they offer HDMI input but dont provided the cable
Memory Card Cost	Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or more
Dull Photos	with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.
Beginners	Highly recommended to other newbies wh
Handling	Light weight great body design.
Remote	No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. 
Visibility 	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.
Outside Reviews	rated 
Cleanable	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily 	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily 	but I do NOT love cleaning it
Big Space	Big enough for a toddler
Space Fitting	Very bulky
Adjust Strap Length	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position
Capacity	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs	its a very tight space to use the light blue head rests
Better Than Britax	Britax Advocate I feel like you get what you pay for I was told about this car seat and figured I would give it a try.
Safe And Secure	 My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.
Good For Infants And Toddlers	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddler
Very Big. Might Not Fit In Small Cars	Very bulky
Description Is Bad	 the product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat.
Head/neck Support Cushion	 head/neck support cushion
Infant Seat	but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient. 
Space In Smaller Cars	is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. 
Washing	headrest pad is attached to another pad that continues down the back behind the main pad   So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash
Adjustable And Reclines	recline it at 3 different levels	adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels
Product Info	product features and product description contradict each other 	It looks just as it is pictured
Convenience Infant	I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient
Convenience Toddler	this seat makes it easy to do so.
Com	#N/A	I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit.  It is so high in fact that my 3 1/2 year old would still be able to be rear facing in this seat
Adjustable Straps	No thread adjustable straps	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position	adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats	  I love the no rethread harness and although it took me a bit to figure out how to work it it is still fairly simple and much preferrable over the rethread type.
Breathable	This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature	black fabric in Texas summers 
Stylish	stylish	Loved the colors as well.
Transitions	 car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of
A Beginner's Camera	Excellent Beginners DSLR	As a first time Digital SLR buyer and user I love this camera and would highly recommend it to others.
Size (lightweight)	 Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.	 not very heavy
Comparison To T31	 If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different
Weigh	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips	The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip	. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both ha
Low-light Performance	good low-light performance
Lense Value	 The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens
Wide-angle Performance	Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade
Video Auto-focus	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture
UV Filter For Lense	Make sure to get UV filter
Camera Performance	make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera
More Lenses	lens kit
Grid On Screen	grid
Lens Kit	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money	Save yourself the headache of working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body.	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.
Interface	The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode. I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.	Easy to operate.
Saftey	my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly.  It isnt hard to get back on and it is nice that it pops off so it can go on either side but it is annoying when he gets it off and starts throwing it around.	  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.
Low Light Auto Focus	Almost no low light auto focus
Built-in Falsh	Built-in flash is not so great.
Comments	#N/A
Comments#price	#N/A
Iso Button	my favorite thing is the dedicated iso button making it easy to change quickly.	i would recommend this camera over any one on the market and shoots great in low lighting settings. all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels natural. my favorite thing is the dedicated iso button making it easy to change quickly.	i would recommend this camera over any one on the market and shoots great in low lighting settings. all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels natural. my favorite thing is the dedicated iso button making it easy to change quickly.
D3100_price_coupon	649.00 549.0
White Balance	White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.	White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.	White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. 	White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up.	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file
T3i_comments_comp	Eventhough i got this for a normal price i love this camera like anything. Being a beginner in photographyi took much time to decide on models between T2iT3i and 60D. Atlast i bought T3i and i am very much satisfied with the product. Amazon prime helped to get the delivery in a very shortest period which was not imaginable.The only mistake i did was i bought 2 different lens18-55 
T2i_commems_comp	If your looking for a great Camera look no further you have found it  If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100. 
Operate	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.
Quality Of Videos	Takes good quality of videos.
Wireless Remote	No wireless remote.
Dur	#N/A
Digital 3X Zoom	Digital 3x zoom in video mode.
For Beginner	I researched for several weeks looking seriously at the Canon T2i and the Nikon D3100.  For the money the D3100 cant be beat.  What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.  I have learned more using that mode in one week than from the weeks Ive spent reading books and websites.
Usability	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable	It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product	Big enough for a toddler	head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.	  Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable straps	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue	I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.	 The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.	Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in.	The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.	This seat would onlt fit in the 2nd row in the middle seating position so that it came up almost through the 2 front seats.  I doubt this seat would fit into any other position in any car	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.	Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.	2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.	No Flip-out LCD
Photo/video Quality	I have had it for a few months now and I get alot of great compliments on my pictures they are professional looking my family and friends say and these are just on the automatic setting LOL wait until I read more and experiment. I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing. My friends son is Captain of his High School Football team and I have gotten some great shots for him to send to recruiters and colleges now lets talk Video I have taken alot for Football and I can not believe the quality and sound you would have thought I used a real video camera and not one from a camera it has surpassed what I have expected for a camera I am unbelievably happy with my purchase.	I took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality. I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer. The quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it. I also took a picture of a cherry tree that was about 30 yards away and then opened it up in Photoshop zoomed in and could see cherries that I could not even see with my eyes from the spot where I took the picture.	I chose to purchase the camera body separately so that I could pair it with the EF-S 17-55mm f/2.8 IS USM lens.  Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera.  Ive taken some stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens combo.
Menu	The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode.
Save About $100	 The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spen
Could Pair It With EF-S 17 55 Mm F/2.8IS	ly so that I could pair it with the EF-S 17-55mm f/2.8 IS 
I	Easy to install	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.
Best Bang For Your Buck	my best friend. I chose the t2i over t3i because I didnt feel I would need to use the movable lcd screen and couldnt justify spending that much money on it. If you are condsidering the t3i go ahead and get the
Good For Beginners	For a begginer in the professional photography area I definetly see an ocean of difference between the t2i and point and shoot cameras. Picture quality on this t2i is stunning so many features that it will take me months to figure out how to really get the most out of this c
Co	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it.
In	Easy to install	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.
Need A Lot Of Storage Space	The pictures at full 18MP take a lot of memory. Better get some means of decent storage space 750-1TB hardrive will do
Best Balance For Wedding Pictures	 decided that this model offered me the best balance. I also kept in mind that I have a very specific use for it which is wedding photography and on dark ve
Rugged Enough	 rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day.  I ha
T2i Is Fast	he T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to.  It makes a huge difference know
Too Much Delays	sponsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.
Do Not Have A Built In Focus Motor	kon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am sure the Nikon D5100 is a spectacular camera and it sports a larder image sensor than the
Quality Is Amazing	he quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it. I also took a picture of a cherry tree that was about 30 yards away a
Tight On Power Comsumption	is camera is very tight on power consumption an
Flip Out LCD Screem	I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the vide
Bad Nikon Warranty	 pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than
Dedicated Iso Button Making It Easy To Change	dicated iso button making it easy to change quickly.
Wallet Friendly 	onus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want 
Diffcult To Install 	.  Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick. One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a
Please Their Customers	ho please their customers 
Size Is Pretty Big	he size is pretty big not really
Seat Seam Padded Well And Comfortable	  Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.  Ive felt a lot of other car seats out there that feel like theyd be pretty hard to sit on and uncomfo
Chair Is Excellent Quality	 chair is excellent quality.
No Rethread Harness Is Awesome	The no rethread harness is awesome. The seat was comfortable looking and big enough rear facing all the way until two years old which is what the apa
Advanced Skill	#N/A
Ergonomic Arrangement Of Controls	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.  The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode. I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.  The view finder is very clear and has all basic settings info on the bottom border.  The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRs.
Quality Of Picture And Weight	I love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy.  It looks like it should be but does not feel like it is.  It appears to be a very sturdy camera.
Low Resolution Of LCD Screen	 Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.
Different Shots	I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing.
Manual Mode	  The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode.
High Speed And Memory Card	 high speed memory card
User-friendliness	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.	 The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not.	I took some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very good. Also i loved the guide mode when in doubt use guide.
Autofocus When Zooming	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.
White Balance In Auto Mode	White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.
Colors	I also dont like some of the colors but that is personal preference	  Loved the colors as well
Build	The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.	Additionally with the side impact shaping its a very tight space to use the light blue head rests shown in the listing picture.  I havent tested it out yet but just from the appearance I can tell its not going to work.
Stabilization	The IS works really well
Installation Ease	 Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat	 VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric
Texture	 VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric
Materials	 One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.	You do need a seat protector but youd need that with any car seat
Color	I also dont like some of the colors but that is personal preference.	I also dont like some of the colors but that is personal preference.
Looks	 but this seat is also stylish 	This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or style
Great Lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.
Little Shutter	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.
Good Low Light	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.
And Videos	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.
No Auto-focus	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOther Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for 
Shutter Lag	Minimal shutter lag	 shutter and the camera will instantly take a picture	 Very fast auto focus on shooting.
Ergonomic Button Settings	  I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.
Camera Feels Solid And Good Grip	The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.
Not Pro Level SLR	This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.
Auto Focus Is Terrible	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.
Good Quality For Videos	Takes good quality of videos.
Very Fast Auto Focus	Very fast auto focus on shooting
No Wireless Remote	 No wireless remote.
Battery Life Is Bad	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.
Safest Baby Seat On Market	it has the highest safety rating.
Their Son Loves It	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.
Is Very Big	The size is pretty big
Catches Stuff Under The Seat	Catch a lot of stuff under the padding
Can Only Hold Up To 50 Lbs	The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.
Very Bulky	so I dont mind the bulk
Very Secure And Kids Love Them	It holds the girls very secure and they love them.
Fairly Priced	the price is very reasonable.
Material Is Very Soft Good For Babies	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.
Poorly Built Visor Allows Light In	the biggest is this darn sun visor
Babies Sitting On Hard Plastic	So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.
Low Light Performance	good low-light performance
Intermediate Shooters	for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.
Image Stabilisation	Built in image stabilizer
Movable LCD Screen	articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.
Auto Mode Picture Quality	problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photos.
Guide Mode For Beginners	What sold me was the guide mode.
No Blockage Of View	head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.
Product Description	the product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat.  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.
Safety Tested	It is side crash tested
Photo Quality	#N/A
Beginning User	#N/A
Cup-holder	#N/A
DSLR	T2i is the Best Entry Level DSLR
Quality Of Pictures	 I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.	Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes	  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A 
Material Cleaning	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin.	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.
Deliver	Both were delivered super fast 
Size (big)	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.  Also my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly.  It isnt hard to get back on and it is nice that it pops off so it can go on either side but it is annoying when he gets it off and starts throwing it around.  Of course it would be that or his toys or whatever else he could find if he couldnt get it off.  You do need a seat protector but youd need that with any car seat.  I also dont like some of the colors but that is personal preference.
Removable Parts	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.  Also my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly.  It isnt hard to get back on and it is nice that it pops off so it can go on either side but it is annoying when he gets it off and starts throwing it around.  Of course it would be that or his toys or whatever else he could find if he couldnt get it off.  You do need a seat protector but youd need that with any car seat.  I also dont like some of the colors but that is personal preference.
Holding Weight	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.
Height Adjustment	Some of the reviews complain that the Air  wings  cause problems for the kid seeing out but their height is adjustable AND I really like that when my daughter falls asleep they hold her head up so its not bobbing all over the place.
Wing Cleaning	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.
Pricing	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.
Strap Adjustment	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.
Price Comparison	189.99 169.	189.99 169.
Darn Sun Visor	the biggest is this darn sun visor
Headrest	head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small	the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand	its a very tight space to use the light blue head rests
Materi	emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge
Sensor	The nikon D5100 has a better larger DX sensor vs canon APS sized sensor sensor. So less noise on the Nikon.	The nikon D5100 has a better larger DX sensor vs canon APS sized sensor sensor.
Er	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.
Advice	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery
Filter	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for 
Bugs	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.
Application	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture
Editing	zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture
Additional Features	The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.	No wireless remote.	head rest is removable
Screeen	I looked at many items before pulling the trigger on the Canon T3i. I went to Best buy and tested out the Canon T2i the Nikon D5100 the Canon 60D and the Nikon D7000. After testing out all the products I came to the decision that the only cameras I liked that felt good in my hand were the Canon T2i Nikon D5100 and the Can T3i. I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal. The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am sure the Nikon D5100 is a spectacular camera and it sports a larder image sensor than the Canon. I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.
Shoots Great In Low Light	Im a film student and was trying to decide between a t3i and Nikon 5100. everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera. the 600d has better continuous recording you have better manual capabilities. after a lot research i decided to go with the canon i went with a t3i and not a t2i for the flip around screen. i shoot in awkward positions sometimes and it defiantly comes in handy. i would recommend this camera over any one on the market and shoots great in low lighting settings. all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels natural. my favorite thing is the dedicated iso button making it easy to change quickly.
Reclines	The First Years True Fit Recline Convertible Car Seat
Child Fusses Less	his seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.  I am going to order another one of these for my husbands car.  It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product 
Speed 	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOther Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for 
Material Scratches Easily	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers 
Well Padded And Easy To Install	  Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.  I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.  Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.  Ive felt a lot of other car seats out there that feel like theyd be pretty hard to sit on and uncomfortable.
Weight 	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOther Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for 
Comfort And Installation	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable straps
Safety First	Amazon.com Customer Reviews Safety 1st Complete Air 65 Protect Convertible Car Seat Silver Leaf
Weight Limits	Currently the product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat.  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.
"Battery Life, Low Resolution  LCD Screen"	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.
Playback	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.
Child Comfort Level	We asked for this as a Baby Shower gift back in 2010 when my daughter was born. Started to use it in Feb of this year my daughter is on the small side so she just outgrew the infant seat and LOVE IT  Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.
Not Easy To Clean	he  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.  Thats not so bad since she did not puke on that part except that I was not aware that the headrest pad is attached to another pad that continues down the back behind the main pad   So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.  Im having quite an interesting time getting the nasty puke smell out 
Comparison With T3i	 according to the experts there is really not much difference betrween t2i and the t3i.	direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep
Comparing Another Nodel	bought this seat for my son who is now 8 months old.  I got it because I already have the Safety 1st Air Protect On Board 35 SE Infant Car Seat which I love. 
",speed"	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.
Keeps Child Temperature At A Comfortable Level	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.  Some seats seemed too bulky and I know my daughter would be a sweaty mess in those styles.  This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped in.
Flip Screen	allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.
Name Of Product	Graco Snugride Child Car Seat
Side Crash Tested	I absolutely love this car seat. It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. I highly recommend this it item.
HDMI Cable	 Disappointed they offer HDMI input but dont provided the cable.
Getting Child In And Out	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of
Working With Other Products	Works perfectly with the Snap N Go stroller piece.
Body Comparison With Canon T2i	The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.
Lack Of Padding	Not much padding in the seat part..	Ive purchased SnugRides in the past but this is the first one to have a serious lack of adequate padding.  Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEAT
Cup Holder	my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.
Seat Protector	You do need a seat protector
Difficult To Install 	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick
Change Size	recline it at 3 different levels.
Headrest Comfortable	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view 	 As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once.
Cleaning Comfortable	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin
Strap	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.
Baby Proofing	  Also my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly.  It isnt hard to get back on and it is nice that it pops off so it can go on either side but it is annoying when he gets it off and starts throwing it around.
Fabric	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.	This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch
Stroller Compatible	Works perfectly with the Snap N Go stroller piece.
Toddler	Big enough for a toddler	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable straps
Material Used	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.
Safety FEatures	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around	 it has the highest safety rating.	#N/A	 its very comfortable and appears to be very safe
Additional Things Required	  You do need a seat protector but youd need that with any car seat.
Annoying Features	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.	he biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.
Battery Life 	Other Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for 
Overall Performance 	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras
Control	with user-friendly controls
Raw Pictures	s.  Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera.  Ive taken some stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens combo
Overall 	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3i	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.
Burst Mode	The T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to.
ISO Mode	here is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  
Specs	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.	They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base
Accesories	he next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base
Fabric Quality	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.
Performance And Weight	#N/A
Price And Focus	#N/A
Light	 light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day.	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.
Auto Setting	different pre-determined settings sports portrait landscape etc
Is Good First Time Dslr	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens
The Flash Is Not So Good	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade
Lens Compared To Others	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.
Output	Disappointed they offer HDMI input but dont provided the cable. 
Video Taking	the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menu.	The best part was the 1080P video
Help Function	My only issue with the T3i concerns the GRID functions. These work only in LIVE VIEW MODE
Adaptability For Beginners 	if this is your first DSLR
Picture Is Slow 	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture
Wide Angle Settings	when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade
Auto ISO Level Chossing	there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode
Agreement	79 of 81 people found the following review helpfu
Pricey But Great Camera	Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera
Varitey	nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing
Focus Speed	Very fast auto focus on shooting.	 Very fast auto focus on shooting
Slow Motion	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion 
Noise Of Lens	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function 
Lens Performance	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras
Audio Levels	No audio recording level adjust
Video Recording 	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3i
Camera's Auto Focus	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light painting
Beginner	I will not go into extended technical aspects as I am person that is making a transition from an old point and shoot to this DLSR. Camera is just amazing. For a begginer in the professional photography area I definetly see an ocean of difference between the t2i and point and shoot cameras.	Its my first digital SLR	This body is rock solid and worthy of purchase for ANY and ALL people entering or needing an advanced DSLR camera.	As a first time Digital SLR buyer and user I love this camera and would highly recommend it to others.  We took about 300 pictures at a Thanksgiving get together and a few other people tried the camera out and were impressed as well.	  For the money the D3100 cant be beat.	  i would recommend this to anybody i know who is into DSLR. NIKON  way to go  
Argument	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal.
Recommendation	Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes.
Buying Extras For The Camera	 I would recommend to get a high speed memory card. The pictures at full 18MP take a lot of memory. Better get some means of decent storage space 750-1TB hardrive will do
Exposure And Image Quality	very specific use for it which is wedding photography and on dark venues the extra steps with the high ISO combined with large apertures on lenses provided the best combination for my needs.
Compatability	Nikon suggests certain memory cards that they certified to use with this camera. 
It Is A Slow Camera	Canon EOS Rebel T3i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-Inch Clear View Vari-Angle LCD and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS Lens
Bad	ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.
Adaptability For Beginners	Perfect for a beginner
It Is Good For On The Go.	It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses
Zoom Capabilities	I took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality. I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer. The quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it. I also took a picture of a cherry tree that was about 30 yards away and then opened it up in Photoshop zoomed in and could see cherries that I could not even see with my eyes from the spot where I took the picture. I can not wait to get Canon 15-85mm f/3.5-5.6 EF-S Zoom Lens and than I will be in some serious business.
Unprofessional	I am not a professional so please dont take my opinion as someone acting as an authority on this subject
Focusing And Flexibility	 This camera is very tight on power consumption and has extreme accuracy when you set it for pinpoint focusing as I do for model and portrait photography work. The macro features are also on par with its more advanced and WAY higher priced big brothers to this camera. Now the 18.1MP sensor.....WOW  The image sizes of the CMOS sensor allow me great latitude in adjusting and tweaking my RAW images anytime I wish to be creative.
Affordable	  For the money the D3100 cant be beat.
It Take Nice Large Jpage	Nikon D3100 16.2MP CMOS Digital SLR Camera with 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 AF-S DX VR Nikkor Zoom Lens
It Has A Nice Wait To It	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips
Focusing Motors	Since I have switched from Nikon to Canon a lot of my review is based on comparison to Nikon.ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.
Live View Feature	Since I have switched from Nikon to Canon a lot of my review is based on comparison to Nikon.ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.
Picture Quality On Auto Mode	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A 	I took some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very good. Also i loved the guide mode when in doubt use guide. The best part was the 1080P video
It Take Fast Shots	I have the camera saving in both RAW and JPEG until I can get familiar enough to switch completely to RAW.  Saving in this format is 20MB a picture and this card has no trouble keeping up
It Take Good Video	Canon EOS Rebel T2i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-inch LCD and and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS Lens
It Is Better Then The T3I	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.
Seating	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in
Cheap	  It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.
Not Washable	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily
Comf	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.
Sa	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.
C	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well. Overall a very nice car seat for the price.
Cost Of Lens	first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses
Attributes	No autofocus when zooming while taking video	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.	T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. 	 main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menu. The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not.
Acessories	working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body
Quality Of PIcture	professional looking my family and friends
Installation 	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.
Easy Installation 	The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra. As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once.	easly instaled 
Position	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards. They would have rested on the middle seats.
Pros And Cons	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.  light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.
Easy To Carry	Relatively light 
Pricey And Flash Is Not Good	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great
Crop Body Camera	Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera.
Get Nice Complements	I have had it for a few months now and I get alot of great compliments on my pictures they are professional
Great Shot Of Moving Characters	My friends son is Captain of his High School Football team and I have gotten some great shots for him to send to recruiters and colleges now lets talk Video I have taken alot for Football and I can not believe the quality and sound
Audip	No audio recording level adjust
T2I Is Faster	decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  Why
Pixel	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3i
Processor	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3i	Canon EOS Rebel T3i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-Inch Clear View Vari-Angle LCD and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS Lens
Film	If you are just starting out are bored with the out of date  point-n-shoot  want to upgrade your digital cams or you want to move from film to digital the T3i will not disappoint.
Pixel 	Nikon D3100 16.2MP CMOS Digital SLR Camera with 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 AF-S DX VR Nikkor Zoom Lens
Operations Video Quality	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Overall this is an incredible camera. You will not regret it.In addition if youd love to take beautiful portraits for your beloved ones Id highly recommend you to also get a Nikon 35mm f/1.8G AF-S DX Lens for Nikon Digital SLR Cameras. It can be used to take short range portraits close-ups and indoors where the light is insufficient. I am not doing ads for Nikon or Amazon but you will really find the lens worth your investment.
1080p And Better Menu	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menu. The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not.
Wide-Angle Setting	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras
Portrait	 I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing.
Sports	 I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing.	wait until I read more and experiment. I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing. My friends son is Captain of his High School Football team and I have gotten some great shots for him to send to recruiters and colleges now lets talk 
Nature	 I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing.
Compared To Other Cameras	For a begginer in the professional photography area I definetly see an ocean of difference between the t2i and point and shoot cameras.
Articulating LCD Screen	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. 	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen	i went with a t3i and not a t2i for the flip around screen. i shoot in awkward positions sometimes and it defiantly comes in handy.
Detailed Zoom	I took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality. I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer.
Grid Function	My only issue with the T3i concerns the GRID functions. These work only in LIVE VIEW MODE as Ive found so far. 
AV Mode	No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.	No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.
Mi	No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.
Ove	i would recommend this camera over any one on the market and shoots great in low lighting settings. all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels natural. my favorite thing is the dedicated iso button making it easy to change quickly.
Min Shutter Speed	No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.
Dimensions	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there	Very bulky.	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards. They would have rested on the middle seats.	he biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out.	head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.
Take Apart	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.
Protection	protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her
Scratchy	seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy
Seurity	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure
Fuzzy	 soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby
No Padding	there is absolutely NO padding	NO padding.  -
Different Level Adjustmenst 	car seat. It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. I highly recommend this it item.
Not Enough Padding In The Seat	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.  light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.
Sound	Mic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lens
Shooting Speed	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  Why	Since I have switched from Nikon to Canon a lot of my review is based on comparison to Nikon.ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.
Auto Mode Logic	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A 
Lens Noise	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.
Picture Quality 	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot cameras	there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photos.	  If you want sharp pictures you have to use P S A or M modes with the D3100.  There you can control the ISO manually or use Auto ISO and choose a lower maximum ISO setting. 	  Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes	I took some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very good.	I took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality. I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer. The quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it. I also took a picture of a cherry tree that was about 30 yards away and then opened it up in Photoshop zoomed in and could see cherries that I could not even see with my eyes from the spot where I took the picture. I can not wait to get Canon 15-85mm f/3.5-5.6 EF-S Zoom Lens and than I will be in some serious business	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A 
General Performance	Battery life is not too grea	T2i is the one I will keep.  Why	T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode	does not block my view since he is still small.
Video Features	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am sure the Nikon D5100 is a spectacular camera and it sports a larder image sensor than the Canon. I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.
Overall Rating	I researched several SLRs before deciding on the Canon T3i.  Im happy with my choice so far having purchased the camera first of all to take high quality photos of fairly small works of sculpture art using the Canon 60mm macro lens.  For that use the camera and lens seem to work very well.  I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.  The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode. I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.  The view finder is very clear and has all basic settings info on the bottom border.  The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRs. Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger with a swing-out plug.  This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.
Long-lasting	ice and heavy very durable
Qua	enter. It fit fine and snug as can be. What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not bl
Hd Capability	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money co	 Oh and the video.....Its 1080p HD nothing more needs to be said. Canon youve been ROCKIN my images for 30+ years     Stay cool and keep up the great	The best part was the 1080P video.
Comparison Vs T2i	Im a film student and was trying to decide between a t3i and Nikon 5100. everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera. the 600d has better continuous recording you have better manual capabilities. after a lot research i decided to go with the canon i went with a t3i and not a t2i for the flip around screen. i shoot in awkward positions sometimes and it defiantly comes in handy
Serious Photography	There are very many accessories and lenses for this camera.  If you want to really get serious about photography or video making then get THIS camera.
Price Of Lens	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.
Outdoor Shoot	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.
Overall Camera	  Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes
Astrophotography	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light painting
Low Resolution	1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.
Low Battery Life	1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.
Noisy	1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.
Professionalism	This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.
Specifics	Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable straps
Cover	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.	he material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.	he material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.
Summers	May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.
User Feedback	his seat is great and my son LOVES it	she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it. Im just thinking how happy she will be when she gets turned around in a few months. This will even	Again my little girl likes being in the seat and able to look out of the windows at the world around her. I would recommend this
Independent Rating	rated 
Complications	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards. They would have rested on the middle seats.  Other than that it is an awesome seat.  It holds t
Options	it my newborns head with the extra cushion that came with it.  Loved the colors as well. Works perfectly with the Snap N Go stroller piec
Large	 However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives
Shutterlag	Minimal shutter lag
Max Burst Rate	3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjust
Good For Trips	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.
Purchase	couldnt be more happier with this Purchase	 I purchased the camera has been extremely gratifying	I am very happy about the decision.	 was able to purchase a telephoto lens to go with it.  Worth every penny.  I look forward to many years of great photos.
Slow Speed	Slower than T2i 
User-friendly Control	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.
Sports Video	It is GREAT for skate/surf video because of its 60fps mode.
ISO Firmware	Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes.
Auto Point	Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes.
Good Shots	 I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing.
Good Lense	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOther Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for 
Bad GRID Fuctions	My only issue with the T3i concerns the GRID functions.
Slow Auto-focus	Since I have switched from Nikon to Canon a lot of my review is based on comparison to Nikon.ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.
Good Service	Since I have switched from Nikon to Canon a lot of my review is based on comparison to Nikon.ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.
Auto-mode	the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.
Easy Operation	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.
Low LCD Resolution	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.
Snug	really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.
Ranking	 rated 
Baby Shower Gift Option	Baby Shower gift
Buckle	 the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well.
