speed 	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Better Quality Cameras And Price 	not much difference betrween t2i and the t3i. for 150 bucks lessProsumer Digital single-lens reflex camera 	It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR0 Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners	e money on lense0 Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners	Excellent Beginners DSLR0 Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners	I took some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very good.0 Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners	I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing.1080p And Better Menu Liquid crystal display	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menu. The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not.1080p Video Quality	The best part was the 1080P video.1080P Video Speed 1080p	1080P video18-135 Lens Large	The 18-135 lens is nice but a bit large7D	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a cropA Beginner's Camera Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners	Excellent Beginners DSLRA Beginner's Camera Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners	As a first time Digital SLR buyer and user I love this camera and would highly recommend it to others.A Bit Inconvenient Bulky Chevrolet Malibu Pool noodle	We are using this as a rear facing seat in our Chevy Malibu and it fits just fine. Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Im glad we had the Chicco Keyfit 30 when our guy was an infant. Im sure this is safe enough but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient. Even though my son isnt quiet 1 yet he was ready for a more toddler friendly seat. This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him. I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Overall Im very satisfied with my purchase.A Little Difficult To Install	little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickAbilities Slow motion	slow motionAbilities Slow motion	articulating screenAccesories	he next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra baseAccessories	darn sun visorAccessories	 flip out LCD screenAccessories	Battery life is not too greatAccessories	comes with head/neck support cushion.Accessories	Works perfectly with the Snap N Go stroller pieceAccessories	here are very many accessories and lenses for this camera.Accessories	son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quicklyAccessories	There are very many accessories and lenses for this camera.  Accessories	Disappointed they offer HDMI input but dont provided the cable.Accessories	my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quicklyAccessories	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensAccessories	but it is annoying when he gets it off and starts throwing it aroundAccessories	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base.Accessories	I wound up purchasing a 50mm 1.4 off a local photographer off CL and I love that lensAccessories	And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lensAccessories	consider getting a 50mm f1.8 or 1.4 lens and a fisheye/wideangle if you do skate videos/photosAccessories	purchase the camera body separately so that I could pair it with the EF-S 17-55mm f/2.8 IS USM lensAccessories	comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRsAccessories	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Accessories	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Accessories	pictures at full 18MP take a lot of memory. Better get some means of decent storage space 750-1TB hardrive will doAccessories	 They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Accessories	There are very many accessories and lenses for this camera.  If you want to really get serious about photography or video making then get THIS camera.Accessories	  Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or more.  I purchased two Transcend 8GB Class 10 SDHC Card TS8GSDHC10 from Amazon and so far these have been amazing.Accessories	Save yourself the headache of working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body.  Pair it with the lens of your choice but I have no regrets with my 17-55mm purchase.Accessories	memory cards that they certified to use with this camera.  Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or more.  I purchased two Transcend 8GB Class 10 SDHC Card TS8GSDHC10 from Amazon Accessories	highly recommend you to also get a Nikon 35mm f/1.8G AF-S DX Lens for Nikon Digital SLR Cameras. It can be used to take short range portraits close-ups and indoors where the light is insufficientAcessories Kit lens System camera (association football) Camera	working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera bodyAdaptability	 user-friendly controlsAdaptability	Works perfectly with the Snap N Go stroller piece.Adaptability	  Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode so it acts like a point and shoot.Adaptability For Beginners	Perfect for a beginnerAdaptability For Beginners  Digital single-lens reflex camera	if this is your first DSLRAdditional Feature Digital single-lens reflex camera Liquid crystal display Autofocus Pixel Nikon Canon (company) Megapixel Zoom lens Camera Single-lens Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor D3100	articulating LCD screenAdditional Feature Digital single-lens reflex camera Liquid crystal display Autofocus Pixel Nikon Canon (company) Megapixel Zoom lens Camera Single-lens Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor D3100	T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.Additional Feature Digital single-lens reflex camera Liquid crystal display Autofocus Pixel Nikon Canon (company) Megapixel Zoom lens Camera Single-lens Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor D3100	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iCons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingAdditional Feature Digital single-lens reflex camera Liquid crystal display Autofocus Pixel Nikon Canon (company) Megapixel Zoom lens Camera Single-lens Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor D3100	I will make a brief of my own experience of this camera to DSLR beginnersPros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Additional Features	No wireless remote.Additional Features	head rest is removableAdditional Features	The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.Additional Info Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Canon (company) Lens (optics)	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.Additional Things Required	  You do need a seat protector but youd need that with any car seat.Adjust	but I do NOT love cleaning itAdjust	you can recline it at 3 different levelsAdjust	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing positionAdjust In Rear Facing	adjusting the strapsAdjust In Rear Facing	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.Adjust Strap Length	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing positionAdjustability	head rest is removable Adjustability	base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levelsAdjustable And Reclines	recline it at 3 different levelsAdjustable And Reclines	adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levelsAdjustable Headrest	higher weight limitAdjustable Headrest	height is adjustable Adjustable Headrest	head rest is removableAdjustable Headrest	Cant adjust strap lengthAdjustable Headrest	No thread adjustable strapsAdjustable Headrest	This will even work for newbornsAdjustable Headrest	base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levelsAdjustable Headrest	next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra baseAdjustable Headrest	t is so high in fact that my 3 1/2 year old would still be able to be rear facing in this seatAdjustable Headrest	If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath Adjustable Headrest	back facing in this seat for about six months and now have him forward facing.  Hes liked both waysAdjustable Headrest	we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2Adjustable Headrest	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Adjustable Headrest	.  They were pretty easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats.Adjustable Headrest	rticulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possibleAdjustable Position	the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levelsAdjustable Straps	No thread adjustable strapsAdjustable Straps	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing positionAdjustable Straps	adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seatsAdjustable Straps	  I love the no rethread harness and although it took me a bit to figure out how to work it it is still fairly simple and much preferrable over the rethread type.Adjusting Strap Length In Rear Position	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing positionAdjusting While Facing Rear	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing positionAdvanced Skill	#N/AAdvice UV filter Filter (optics)	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare batteryAF Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Affordability Wallet	wallet friendlyAffordability Wallet	wallet friendlyAffordability Wallet	the price is very reasonable.Affordable Nikon D3100	  For the money the D3100 cant be beat.Agreement	79 of 81 people found the following review helpfuAmount Or Placement Of Padding	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.And Videos Shutter lag (photography)	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Angle Settings Can Create Shade Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens	wide angle setting lens creates a shadeAnnoying Features	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Annoying Features	he biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Aperture Nikon AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G 135 film	8-135mm 55-200mm or 75-300mmApplication Autofocus Shutter (photography) button	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the pictureArgument Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal.Articulated LCD Screen Menu (computing)	The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode. I especially like the articulated LCD screen Articulating LCD Screen Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screenArticulating LCD Screen Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. Articulating LCD Screen Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	i went with a t3i and not a t2i for the flip around screen. i shoot in awkward positions sometimes and it defiantly comes in handy.Articulating screen Image stabilization	The articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2iArticulating Screen screen Image stabilization	he articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2iAstrophotography Autofocus Long-exposure photography	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingAttachments Sun visor	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily Attachments Sun visor	 the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Attribute- Design	seat seams padded well and comfortable for my sonAttribute- Design	put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingAttribute- Design	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inAttribute- Easy Child Placement/removal	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durableAttribute- Ergonomic Design Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge)	ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to useAttribute- Pixel And Grain Makeup	Low resolution of LCD screenAttribute- Pixel And Grain Makeup	rom the amount of grain in the pictureAttribute- Pixel And Grain Makeup	White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ishAttribute- Quick Auto Focus Autofocus	Very fast auto focus on shootingAttribute- Quick Auto Focus Autofocus	T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed toAttribute- Quick Installation Parent-in-law	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutesAttribute- Saving In 2 Forms Till Used To Camera JPEG	I have the camera saving in both RAW and JPEG until I can get familiar enough to switch completely to RAWAttributes Autofocus Digital zoom	No autofocus when zooming while taking videoAttributes Autofocus Digital zoom	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.Attributes Autofocus Digital zoom	T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. Attributes Autofocus Digital zoom	 main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menu. The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not.Audience Digital single-lens reflex camera Camera	not a professional Audience Digital single-lens reflex camera Camera	erfect for a beginneAudience Digital single-lens reflex camera Camera	you have better manual capabilitieAudience Digital single-lens reflex camera Camera	or needing an advanced DSLR camera.Audience Digital single-lens reflex camera Camera	 Being a beginner in photographyi took much time to decide on models between T2iT3i and 60D. Atlast i bought T3i and i am very much satisfied with the product. Audio	o audio recording level adjustAudio	No audio recording level adjustAudio	No audio recording level adjustAudio	No audio recording level adjustAudio Levels	No audio recording level adjustAudio Recording	No audio recording level adjustAudio Recording	No audio recording level adjustAudio Recording	No audio recording level adjustAudio Recording	No audio recording level adjustAudio Recording	No audio recording level adjustAudio Recording	No audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingAudio Recording Level Adjust	No audio recording level adjustAudip	No audio recording level adjustAuto	Auto mode so it acts like a point and shootAuto	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forAuto Focus Autofocus	Almost no low light auto focusAuto Focus Autofocus	uto focus in  live view  mode Auto Focus Autofocus	Almost no low light auto focusAuto Focus Autofocus	Very fast auto focus on shootingAuto Focus Autofocus	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Auto Focus Autofocus	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Auto Focus Autofocus	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Auto Focus Autofocus	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Auto Focus Autofocus	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Auto Focus Autofocus	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Auto Focus Autofocus	No autofocus when zooming while taking videoAuto Focus Autofocus	No autofocus when zooming while taking videoAuto Focus Autofocus	Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasAuto Focus Autofocus	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingAuto Focus Autofocus	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingAuto Focus Autofocus	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slowAuto Focus Autofocus	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow.Auto Focus Autofocus	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Auto Focus Autofocus	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Auto Focus Autofocus	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Auto Focus Autofocus	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow.Auto Focus Autofocus	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow.Auto Focus Autofocus	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Auto Focus Autofocus	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Auto Focus Autofocus	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Auto Focus Autofocus	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Auto Focus Autofocus	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Auto Focus Autofocus	 No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasAuto Focus For Video Autofocus Shutter (photography) button	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Auto Focus Is Terrible Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Auto Focus Slow Nikon D5100 Autofocus Canon (company) Manual focus	 video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am Auto Foucus Autofocus	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Auto ISO Level Chossing Nikon D3100 Film speed	there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto ModeAuto ISO Nikon D3100	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Auto Lens Mode	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of picturesAuto Lens Mode	took some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very goodAuto Lens Mode	 Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of picturesAuto Lens Mode	 took some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very good.Auto Lens Mode	the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Auto Lens Mode	the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Auto Lens Mode	it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes.Auto Lens Mode	I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Auto Lens Mode	 I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Auto Lens Mode	there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.Auto Lens Mode	 there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the settingAuto Lens Mode	right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forAuto Lens Mode	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for. Auto Lens Mode	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for. Auto Lens Mode	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for. Auto Lens Mode	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.Auto Lens Mode	You would expect Auto Modes to take easy great pictures in an entry level camera most people coming from point and shoot cameras.  If you want sharp pictures you have to use P S A or M modes with the D3100.  Auto Lens Mode	  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.Auto Lens Mode	 I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.Auto Lens Mode	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the pictureAuto Lens Mode	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.Auto Lens Mode	Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Auto Mode - Focus Autofocus	 Very fast auto focus on shooting.Auto Mode - Focus Autofocus	 No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Auto Mode - Focus Autofocus	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Auto Mode - Quality Nikon D3100 Film speed	there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photos.Auto Mode - Quality Nikon D3100 Film speed	I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Auto Mode Logic Nikon D3100	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Auto Mode Not Good Quality Pictures	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping foAuto Mode Picture Quality Nikon D3100 Film speed	problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photos.Auto Picture	I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode so it acts like a point and shoot.Auto Picture	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.Auto Point Firmware Point-and-shoot camera	Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes.Auto Setting	different pre-determined settings sports portrait landscape etcAuto Shoot Quality	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Auto-focus Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus	No autofocus when zooming while taking videoAuto-focus Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Auto-focus Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus	 I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for. Auto-focus Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus	Well I have since done some research and participated in forums and found out there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.Auto-focus Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus	3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.Auto-focus Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus	D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photos.  You would expect Auto Modes to take easy great pictures in an entry level camera most people coming from point and shoot cameras.Auto-focus Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasAuto-mode	the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Autofocus  Lens (optics)	auto focusAutofocus  Lens (optics)	No autofocusAutofocus  Lens (optics)	Very fast auto focus on shootingAutofocus  Lens (optics)	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Autofocus  Lens (optics)	Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors.Autofocus  Lens (optics)	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forAutofocus  Lens (optics)	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the pictureAutofocus  Lens (optics)	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Autofocus  Lens (optics)	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. Autofocus  Lens (optics)	 Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasAutofocus Live preview Viewfinder	Auto focus in  live view  modeAutofocus Live preview Viewfinder	Very fast auto focus on shootiAutofocus Live preview Viewfinder	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder	 Very fast auto focus on shooting.Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder	No autofocus when zooming while taking videoAutofocus Live preview Viewfinder	No autofocus when zooming while taking videoAutofocus Live preview Viewfinder	you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder	the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forAutofocus Live preview Viewfinder	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic inputAutofocus Live preview Viewfinder	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slowAutofocus Live preview Viewfinder	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder	 No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder	wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasAutofocus Live preview Viewfinder	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasAutofocus Live preview Viewfinder	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder	#N/AAutofocus SLOW Live preview	Auto focus in  live view  mode Autofocus When Zooming Shutter (photography) button	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Autofocus/low Light Autofocus	no low light auto focusAutofocus/zoom Autofocus Digital zoom	No autofocus when zooming while taking videoAutomatic Built In Flash	Built-in flash is not so greaAutomode	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  TAutomode	I took some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very good. Also i loved the guide mode when in doubt use guide. The best part was the 1080P video. I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good and my wife who is very difficult to please liked it so much that she said that next time we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100  I guess now i can finally retire my mini DV video camera.Automode And Point	not in the auto point and shoot modes.Automodes	Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto modeAutomodes	 I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flashAV Mode Focal length Shutter speed Canon (company) Camera (photography) Zoom lens Film	No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.AV Mode Focal length Shutter speed Canon (company) Camera (photography) Zoom lens Film	No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.Awesome Camera	5.0 out of 5 stars Babies Sitting On Hard Plastic	So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.Baby Can See Out Windows	look out of the windows at the world around herBaby Comfort	 seat cover became scratchy.Baby Comfort	 serious lack of adequate padding.Baby Comfort	comes with head/neck support cushionBaby Comfort	excellent padding and very nice soft fabricBaby Comfort	 seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature Baby Comfort	y child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure. Baby Comfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we broughtBaby Comfort	 sure this is safe enough but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient. Baby Comfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Baby Proofing	  Also my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly.  It isnt hard to get back on and it is nice that it pops off so it can go on either side but it is annoying when he gets it off and starts throwing it around.Baby Shower Gift Option	Baby Shower giftBackward Facing	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards. They would have rested on the middle seats.  Other than that it is an awesome seatBackward Facing	My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing. Between my 3 kids Ive been through about 6 different convertible car seats in the past 8 years and this one was by far the most difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt.Bad Color balance Live preview Autofocus Focal length Canon (company) Shutter speed Viewfinder (photography) Camera Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film	ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Bad GRID Fuctions	My only issue with the T3i concerns the GRID functions.Bad Nikon Warranty	 pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better thanBase	you cannot tell if the car seat is level.Base	 It is side crash tested and the base is adjustableBase	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra baseBase	They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that baseBase	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level.Base	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Battery Charge	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everydayBattery Charge	This camera is very tight on power consumption and has extreme accuracy when you set it for pinpoint focusing as I do for model and portrait photography work. The macro features are also on par with its more advanced and WAY higher priced big brothers to this camera. Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	Battery lifeBattery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	Battery life is not too greatBattery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	attery life is not too great.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	Battery life is not too greatBattery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	Battery life is not too greatBattery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	Battery life is not too greatBattery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	Battery life is not too great.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	Battery life is not too great.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	Battery life is not too great. Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	 Battery life is not too great.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	. Battery life is not too greatBattery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	 Battery life is not too great. Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	Battery life seems to be very goodBattery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	Battery life seems to be very goodBattery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	Battery life seems to be very goodBattery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	Battery life seems to be very good Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	Battery life seems to be very good - longer Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	 Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	 Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	 Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everydayBattery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. TBattery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	y used point and shoot cameras in the past and have always had fun taking pictures.  I wanted to start digital photography as a hobbBattery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	This camera is very tight on power consumption and has extreme accuracy when you set it for pinpoint focusing as I do for model and portrait photography work.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital CamerasBattery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	 Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	 Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	 Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger with a swing-out plug.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	As a first time Digital SLR buyer and user I love this camera and would highly recommend it to others.  We took about 300 pictures at a Thanksgiving get together and a few other people tried the camera out and were impressed as well.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000	This is my first time buying a Digital SLR.  I have mainly used point and shoot cameras in the past and have always had fun taking pictures.  I wanted to start digital photography as a hobby so I decided to buy a nicer camera.  After reading many reviews and comparisons I decided on this camera as it is the update to the Nikon D3000 that a friend of mine has.  They love their camera so I figured this was a good choice.  Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode so it acts like a point and shoot.  Compared to my Kodak point and shoot the pictures are great.  I love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy.  It looks like it should be but does not feel like it is.  It appears to be a very sturdy camera.Battery Life	Battery lifeBattery Life	Battery lifeBattery Life	Battery life Battery Life	Battery life is not too greatBattery Life	Battery life is not too greatBattery Life	Battery life is not too greatBattery Life	Battery life is not too greatBattery Life	 Battery life is not too greatBattery Life	Battery life is not too great.Battery Life	Battery life is not too great.Battery Life	 Battery life is not too great. IBattery Life	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expectedBattery Life	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expectedBattery Life	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.Battery Life	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.Battery Life	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.Battery Life	 Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everydayBattery Life	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.Battery Life	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.Battery Life	 Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to someBattery Life	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger wiBattery Life	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital CamerasBattery Life	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Battery Life	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Battery Life	 Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Battery Life	 Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Battery Life	. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Battery Life	4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Battery Life	4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Battery Life	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger with a swing-out plug.Battery Life	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger with a swing-out plug.Battery Life	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger with a swing-out plug.  This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.Battery Life	3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.OverBattery Life	Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital CamerasBattery Life	#N/ABattery Life  UV filter	Other Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Battery Life Is Bad	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.Battery Life Long (electricity) Rechargeable battery APS-C	 Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger with a swing-out plug.  This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.Battery Life Low Resolution  LCD Screen Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100 	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Beginner DSLR	great starter cameraBeginner Experience Point-and-shoot camera Camera	  It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLRBeginner Experience Point-and-shoot camera Camera	For a begginer in the professional photography area I definetly see an ocean of difference between the t2i and point and shoot cameras.Beginner Experience Point-and-shoot camera Camera	Being a beginner in photographyi took much time to decide on models between T2iT3i and 60D. Atlast i bought T3i and i am very much satisfied with the productBeginner Friendly Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners	Excellent Beginners DSLRBeginner Friendly Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners	not a professional level SLRBeginner Friendly Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners	as a first time user I am happyBeginner Friendly Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners	want to move from film to digitalBeginner Friendly Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners	The camera itself is very user friendlyBeginner Friendly Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners	Its my first digital SLR Ive had it for about a year and I love it.Beginner Friendly Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners	Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price Beginner Friendly Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners	The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not. I am a person to read through and learn the various features the camera has to offer.Beginner Friendly Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners	 I have had it for a few months now and I get alot of great compliments on my pictures they are professional looking my family and friends say and these are just on the automatic setting LOL wait until I read more and experimentBeginner Friendly Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners	I wanted to start digital photography as a hobby so I decided to buy a nicer camera.  After reading many reviews and comparisons I decided on this camera as it is the update to the Nikon D3000 that a friend of mine has.  They love their camera so I figured this was a good choiceBeginner Friendly Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners	 For a begginer in the professional photography area I definetly see an ocean of difference between the t2i and point and shoot cameras. Picture quality on this t2i is stunning so many features that it will take me months to figure out how to really get the most out of this camera.Beginner Point-and-shoot camera Camera	Its my first digital SLRBeginner Point-and-shoot camera Camera	  For the money the D3100 cant be beat.Beginner Point-and-shoot camera Camera	  i would recommend this to anybody i know who is into DSLR. NIKON  way to go  Beginner Point-and-shoot camera Camera	This body is rock solid and worthy of purchase for ANY and ALL people entering or needing an advanced DSLR camera.Beginner Point-and-shoot camera Camera	As a first time Digital SLR buyer and user I love this camera and would highly recommend it to others.  We took about 300 pictures at a Thanksgiving get together and a few other people tried the camera out and were impressed as well.Beginner Point-and-shoot camera Camera	I will not go into extended technical aspects as I am person that is making a transition from an old point and shoot to this DLSR. Camera is just amazing. For a begginer in the professional photography area I definetly see an ocean of difference between the t2i and point and shoot cameras.Beginner's Lens Digital single-lens reflex camera (optics)	 Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lensesBeginner's Toy Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners	Excellent Beginners DSLRBeginners Newbie	Highly recommended to other newbies whBeginning User	#N/ABeing User Friendly Usability (computing)	user friendly whether you have read the manual or notBest Balance For Wedding Pictures photography	 decided that this model offered me the best balance. I also kept in mind that I have a very specific use for it which is wedding photography and on dark veBest Bang For Your Buck Lola language	my best friend. I chose the t2i over t3i because I didnt feel I would need to use the movable lcd screen and couldnt justify spending that much money on it. If you are condsidering the t3i go ahead and get theBetter Than Britax Child safety seat	Britax Advocate I feel like you get what you pay for I was told about this car seat and figured I would give it a try.Big Car Seat	 big car seatBig Space Toddler	Big enough for a toddlerBody	Relatively lightBody	Somewhat Compact sizeBody	basically a 7D in a crop bodyBody	 body is rock solid and worthy Body	 Light weight great body design.Body	Pair it with the lens of your choiceBody	Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.Body	This body is rock solid and worthy of purchase for ANY and ALL people entering or needing an advanced DSLR camera.Body	  The view finder is very clear and has all basic settings info on the bottom border.  The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRs. Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger with a swing-out plug.  This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.Body	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Body	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Body	#N/ABody Comparison With Canon T2i	The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Brand	. Definitely worth doing business with companiesBreathable	black fabric in Texas summers Breathable	This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperatureBritax Car Seats Child safety seat	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much .Buckle	 the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well.Bugs	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Build Of The Camera Is Good	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing theBuild Quality Asymptotic giant branch	ut I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.Build Quality Asymptotic giant branch	. Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all dayBuild Use forms of explosives	The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.Build Use forms of explosives	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Build Use forms of explosives	Additionally with the side impact shaping its a very tight space to use the light blue head rests shown in the listing picture.  I havent tested it out yet but just from the appearance I can tell its not going to work.Built In Flash	uilt-in flash is not so greaBuilt In Flash	Built-in flash is not so greatBuilt In Flash	Built-in flash is not so greatBuilt In Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. AlBuilt In Flash	hen taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shadeBuilt In Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Built In Flash Sucks Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Point-and-shoot camera Camera button	Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasBuilt In Focus Motor Autofocus	built-in focus motor.Built-in Falsh	Built-in flash is not so great.Built-in Flash	Built-in flashBuilt-in Flash	Built-in flash is not so greatBuilt-in Flash	Built-in flash is not so greatBuilt-in Flash	Built-in flash is not so greatBuilt-in Flash	Built-in flash is not so greatBuilt-in Flash	Built-in flash is not so greatBuilt-in Flash	Built-in flash is not so great.Built-in Flash	 Built-in flash is not so greatBuilt-in Flash	Built-in flash is not so great.Built-in Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. Built-in Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shadeBuilt-in Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shadeBuilt-in Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Built-in Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Built-in Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Built-in Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Built-in Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Built-in Flash	I upgraded from a Canon 20D to this specific model after several hours of navigating product reviews and I dont regret it the other contenders were the T3i and T3 close  range and after careful though on ISO performance MPs price and features I decided that this model offered me the best balance. I also kept in mind that I have a very specific use for it which is wedding photographyBuilt-in Flash	#N/ABuilt-in Flash	#N/ABuilt-in Flash	#N/ABuilt-in Flash	#N/ABulk	Very bulkyBulk	Very bulkyBulk	dont mind the bulk.Bulk	he seat is gigantic.Bulk	seat seems to breatheBulk	afety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Bulky Minivan Van Bench seat	Very bulkyBulky Minivan Van Bench seat	Very bulkyBulky Minivan Van Bench seat	Very bulky.Bulky Minivan Van Bench seat	Very bulky. Bulky Minivan Van Bench seat	big car seatBulky Minivan Van Bench seat	seat is gigantic.  Bulky Minivan Van Bench seat	 it is a big car seatBulky Minivan Van Bench seat	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwardsBulky Minivan Van Bench seat	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Bulky Minivan Van Bench seat	We love these carseats.  It is a big seat especially rear facing.  We have a Sienna mini van and we had them both on the bench seat.  Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards. They would have rested on the middle seats.  Other than that it is an awesome seat.  It holds the girls very secure and they love them.  They were pretty easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats. Other than the issues in rear facing position this is a terrific seat.Bulky Minivan Van Bench seat	#N/ABurst Mode	The T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to.Burst Rate mode (photography)	3.7 max burst rateBurst Rate mode (photography)	3.7 max burst rateBurst Rate mode (photography)	3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allButtons Digital single-lens reflex camera	T2i is FASTButtons Digital single-lens reflex camera	Very fast autoButtons Digital single-lens reflex camera	Entry Level DSLRButtons Digital single-lens reflex camera	uttons are spread evenlyBuying Extras For The Camera Memory card Computer data storage	 I would recommend to get a high speed memory card. The pictures at full 18MP take a lot of memory. Better get some means of decent storage space 750-1TB hardrive will doC	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well. Overall a very nice car seat for the price.Cable HDMI	Disappointed they offer HDMI input but dont provided the cableCamera Body Kit lens Headache	ave yourself the headache of working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body.  Pair it with the lens of your choiceCamera Feels Solid And Good Grip Use forms of explosives	The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.Camera Performance Walkaround	make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body cameraCamera Structure Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	flip out LCD screenCamera's Auto Focus Autofocus Long-exposure photography	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingCamparison To Buffer Speed Of T21 Keep	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhyCan Focus Yourself	As soon as you move up to manual for full controlCan Only Hold Up To 50 Lbs	The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Cant Put Behind Drivers Seat	 have been using the graco snug ride 30 metropolis for 2 months now. So far I am only satisfied with this car seat.pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.  light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.I think I would purchase this car seat again if they changed the visor and made the new base available.Capacity	The seat holds a child up to 65lbsCapacity	The seat holds a child up to 65lbsCapacity	its a very tight space to use the light blue head restsCar Fits	 fit really well in all carsCar Fits	fit well in both of our carsCar Seat	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Carrying Around For A Long Time	Battery lifeCatches Stuff Under The Seat	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingChair Is Excellent Quality	 chair is excellent quality.Change Lens	kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lensesChange Size	recline it at 3 different levels.Changing Settings Maunally Owner's manual Shutter (photography) button Button	 The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual modeCheap	  It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.Cheap Material	t cover is made of a material whereChild Comfort	my son LOVES it Child Comfort	its very comfortableChild Comfort	My child is so comfortableChild Comfort	My child is so comfortableChild Comfort	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortableChild Comfort	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Child Comfort	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Child Comfort	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Child Comfort	I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.Child Comfort	there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.Child Comfort	he biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Child Comfort	After extensive research and practically being settled on the Britax Advocate I feel like you get what you pay for I was told about this car seat and figured I would give it a try.  Worse case I would just use it in my husbands car and then order the Britax for my car.  No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it Child Comfort Level Baby Shower Infant car seat	We asked for this as a Baby Shower gift back in 2010 when my daughter was born. Started to use it in Feb of this year my daughter is on the small side so she just outgrew the infant seat and LOVE IT  Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Child Comfortable Infant car seat	He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all hereChild Fusses Less Infant car seat	his seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.  I am going to order another one of these for my husbands car.  It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Clean	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingClean	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come offClean	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skinClean	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Clean	All that to say - I still love a lot of things about this carseat but I do NOT love cleaning it.Clean	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easilyClean	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   Clean	  So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.  Im having quite an interesting time getting the nasty puke smell out of it.Clean	  My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.Cleanable	but I do NOT love cleaning itCleanable	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skinCleanable	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily Cleanable	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily Cleaning	easy to clean Cleaning	do not clean easilyCleaning	do not clean easilyCleaning	do not clean easily Cleaning	NOT love cleaning it.Cleaning	o not clean easily   Cleaning	Material is easy to cleanCleaning	Material is easy to clean Cleaning	needs to be cleaned by handCleaning	but I do NOT love cleaning itCleaning	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCleaning	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCleaning	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCleaning	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCleaning	material is easy to take off and machine washCleaning	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come offCleaning	material is easy to take off and machine wash Cleaning	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come offCleaning	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come offCleaning	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come offCleaning	the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come offCleaning	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Cleaning	All that to say - I still love a lot of things about this carseat but I do NOT love cleaning it.Cleaning	All that to say - I still love a lot of things about this carseat but I do NOT love cleaning it.Cleaning	the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by handCleaning	the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.Cleaning	the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.Cleaning	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easilyCleaning	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easilyCleaning	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily Cleaning	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily Cleaning	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily Cleaning	My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come offCleaning	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.Cleaning	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.Cleaning	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.Cleaning	My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.  Thats not so bad since she did not puke on that part except that I was not aware that the headrest pad is attached to another pad that continues down the back behind the main pad   So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.  Im having quite an interesting time getting the nasty puke smell out of it.Cleaning	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.  Thats not so bad since she did not puke on that part except that I was not aware that the headrest pad is attached to another pad that continues down the back behind the main pad   So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.  Im having quite an interesting time getting the nasty puke smell out of it.Cleaning	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.  Thats not so bad since she did not puke on that part except that I was not aware that the headrest pad is attached to another pad that continues down the back behind the main pad   So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.  Im having quite an interesting time getting the nasty puke smell out of it.All that to say - I still love a lot of things about this carseat but I do NOT love cleaning it.Cleaning	Some of the reviews complain that the Air  wings  cause problems for the kid seeing out but their height is adjustable AND I really like that when my daughter falls asleep they hold her head up so its not bobbing all over the place.The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.  Thats not so bad since she did not puke on that part except that I was not aware that the headrest pad is attached to another pad that continues down the back behind the main pad   So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.  Im having quite an interesting time getting the nasty puke smell out of it.All that to say - I still love a lot of things about this carseat but I do NOT love cleaning it.Cleaning Comfortable	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skinCleaning The Seat	The material is easy to take off and machine washCleanliness	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCleanliness	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.  Thats not so bad since she did not puke on that part except that I was not aware that the headrest pad is attached to another pad that continues down the back behind the main pad   So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.  Im having quite an interesting time getting the nasty puke smell out of it.Cleanliness & Convenience	the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by handCo	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it.Color	I also dont like some of the colors but that is personal preference.Color	I also dont like some of the colors but that is personal preference.Colors	  Loved the colors as wellColors	I also dont like some of the colors but that is personal preferenceCom	I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit.  It is so high in fact that my 3 1/2 year old would still be able to be rear facing in this seatCom	#N/AComf	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Comfort	NO paddingComfort	comfortableComfort	comfortablyComfort	comfortableComfort	son LOVES itComfort	my son LOVES itComfort	comfert for herComfort	my son LOVES itComfort	very comfortableComfort	fits comfortablyComfort	very comfortableComfort	very comfortableComfort	very comfortableComfort	very comfortable Comfort	 provides comfertComfort	fit fine and snug Comfort	its very comfortableComfort	 its very comfortableComfort	comfortable for my sonComfort	comfortable for my son.Comfort	Big enough for a toddlerComfort	head/neck support cushionComfort	provides comfert for her.Comfort	provides comfert for her.Comfort	My child is so comfortableComfort	Install was exteremly easyComfort	head/neck support cushion.Comfort	My child is so comfortableComfort	seat cover became scratchyComfort	He seemed very comfortableComfort	My child is so comfortableComfort	My child is so comfortable Comfort	My child is so comfortable Comfort	My child is so comfortable Comfort	 My child is so comfortableComfort	My child is so comfortable Comfort	comfortable on my babys skinComfort	comfortable on my babys skinComfort	a more toddler friendly seatComfort	comfortable on my babys skin.Comfort	My son fits comfortably in itComfort	there is absolutely NO paddingComfort	there is absolutely NO paddingComfort	It fit fine and snug as can beComfort	My son fits comfortably in it Comfort	extra cushion that came with itComfort	For ease of use IQ form factor Comfort	recline it at 3 different levelComfort	He still falls asleep with ease.Comfort	well constructed and pretty comfyComfort	well constructed and pretty comfyComfort	This will even work for newborns.Comfort	He seemed very comfortable in it Comfort	Not much padding in the seat partComfort	very comfortable for a little babyComfort	very comfortable for a little babyComfort	very comfortable for a little babyComfort	very comfortable for a little babyComfort	very comfortable for a little babyComfort	very comfortable for a little babyComfort	very comfortable for a little babyComfort	nice fabric thats soft to the touchComfort	Not much padding in the seat part..Comfort	nice fabric thats soft to the touchComfort	comes with head/neck support cushionComfort	It appears to be a very sturdy camera.Comfort	seat seams padded well and comfortableComfort	o much room verses his carrier car seatComfort	padded well and comfortable for my son.Comfort	comfortable and appears to be very safeComfort	ou can recline it at 3 different levels.Comfort	very nice fabric thats soft to the touchComfort	baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Comfort	excellent padding and very nice soft fabricComfort	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerComfort	excellent padding and very nice soft fabricComfort	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerComfort	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerComfort	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerComfort	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerComfort	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerComfort	excellent padding and very nice soft fabricComfort	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerComfort	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerComfort	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerComfort	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerComfort	excellent padding and very nice soft fabricComfort	 Fit my newborns head with the extra cushionComfort	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Comfort	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Comfort	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Comfort	theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic. Comfort	breathe so she remains a comfortable temperatureComfort	So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plasticComfort	 material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable forComfort	 its very comfortable and appears to be very safeComfort	So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plasticComfort	soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyComfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much roomComfort	So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.Comfort	where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingComfort	So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.Comfort	 its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.Comfort	where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingComfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much roomComfort	regretting the black fabric in Texas summers thoughComfort	 its very comfortable and appears to be very safe. Comfort	 May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summersComfort	first one to have a serious lack of adequate paddingComfort	he seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.Comfort	the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my sonComfort	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable Comfort	but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingComfort	This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touchComfort	protects my little girl and it provides comfert for herComfort	its a very tight space to use the light blue head rests Comfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room versesComfort	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for herComfort	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her.Comfort	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin.Comfort	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her.Comfort	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. Comfort	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large tComfort	material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babComfort	 likes being in the seat and able to look out of the windows Comfort	Fit my newborns head with the extra cushion that came with it.Comfort	I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfyComfort	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyComfort	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyComfort	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyComfort	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyComfort	he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to himComfort	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyComfort	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyComfort	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyComfort	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Comfort	 The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyComfort	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Comfort	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Comfort	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Comfort	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Comfort	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Comfort	He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all hereComfort	He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all hereComfort	He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all hereComfort	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secureComfort	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secureComfort	He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.Comfort	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secureComfort	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Comfort	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Comfort	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Comfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seatComfort	When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyesComfort	When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Comfort	This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him.Comfort	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.Comfort	I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seatComfort	I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat.Comfort	my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.Comfort	For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Comfort	my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.Comfort	It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levelsComfort	fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inComfort	This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped inComfort	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh.Comfort	This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped in.Comfort	fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort	shoots great in low lighting settings. all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels natural. Comfort	  This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped in.Comfort	for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEATComfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inComfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inComfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inComfort	Normally he literally fights and struggles when it is time to get into the the car but not this time.Comfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inComfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inComfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inComfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort	 My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inComfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort	daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windowsComfort	 My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort	 My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort	 My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort	 be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Comfort	 My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. Comfort	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Comfort	comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Comfort	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingComfort	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingComfort	but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thicknessComfort	 Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Comfort	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Comfort	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Comfort	extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.  I love the no rethread harnessComfort	seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyComfort	The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRsComfort	this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.Comfort	this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.Comfort	this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.Comfort	eat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Comfort	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsComfort	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsComfort	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsComfort	bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfyComfort	I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.Comfort	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfyComfort	I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.Comfort	I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.Comfort	 I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.Comfort	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.Comfort	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.Comfort	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.  Comfort	my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Comfort	my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Comfort	my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Comfort	  Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars. Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skinComfort	my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Comfort	my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Comfort	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars. Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. Comfort	my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Comfort	The seat was comfortable looking and big enough rear facing all the way until two years old which is what the apa recommends.Comfort	No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all hereComfort	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. Comfort	No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.Comfort	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. Comfort	He seemed very comfortable in it and I liked that the extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.Comfort	He seemed very comfortable in it and I liked that the extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.Comfort	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well.Comfort	It fit fine and snug as can be. What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small. Comfort	He seemed very comfortable in it and I liked that the extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.  I love the noComfort	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Comfort	Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do. Again my little girl likes being in the seat and able to look out of the windows at the world around her.Comfort	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seatComfort	 Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seatComfort	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Comfort	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels.Comfort	 this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyesComfort	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it.Comfort	This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Comfort	Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.  Ive felt a lot of other car seats out there that feel like theyd be pretty hard to sit on and uncomfortable.Comfort	Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.  Ive felt a lot of other car seats out there that feel like theyd be pretty hard to sit on and uncomfortable.Comfort	Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.  Ive felt a lot of other car seats out there that feel like theyd be pretty hard to sit on and uncomfortable.Comfort	I absolutely love this car seat. It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Comfort	Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra. As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once.Comfort	biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyesComfort	I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit.  It is so high in fact that my 3 1/2 year old would still be able to be rear facing in this seatComfort	But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing. My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort	Overall were really happy with this car seat.  It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.Comfort	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it.Comfort	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it.Comfort	Normally he literally fights and struggles when it is time to get into the the car but not this time. I love this chair  My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Comfort	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Comfort	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.  Some seats seemed too bulky and I know my daughter would be a sweaty mess in those styles.  This seat seems to breathe so she remainsComfort	  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.  Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Comfort	Even though my son isnt quiet 1 yet he was ready for a more toddler friendly seat. This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him. I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat.Comfort	Even though my son isnt quiet 1 yet he was ready for a more toddler friendly seat. This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him. I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat.Comfort	 the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out.Comfort	It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. I highly recommend this it item.Comfort	It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. I highly recommend this it item.Comfort	raco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.Comfort	But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing. My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions. Comfort	 But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing. My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Comfort	there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Comfort	. Even though my son isnt quiet 1 yet he was ready for a more toddler friendly seat. This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him. I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.Comfort	 absolutely love this car seat. It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. I highly recommend this it item.Comfort	his car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well. Overall a very nice car seat for the priceComfort	  He seemed very comfortable in it and I liked that the extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.  I love the no rethread harness and although it took me a bit to figure out how to work it it is still fairly simple and much preferrable over the rethread type.Comfort	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinkingComfort	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well. Overall a very nice car seat for the price.Comfort	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well. Overall a very nice car seat for the price.Comfort	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Comfort	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Comfort	No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.  I am going to order another one of these for my husbands car.  It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Comfort	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.  Some seats seemed too bulky and I know my daughter would be a sweaty mess in those styles.  This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped in.  The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well. Comfort	my 2 year old became giddy with excitement. Normally he literally fights and struggles when it is time to get into the the car but not this time. I love this chair  My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure. I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. TheComfort	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it. Im just thinking how happy she will be when she gets turned around in a few months. This will even work for newborns. if I had known that I would have gotten this a long time ago.Comfort	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Comfort	After purchasing this seat we took it for a test drive literally with the baby in it.  He seemed very comfortable in it and I liked that the extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.  I love the no rethread harness and although it took me a bit to figure out how to work it it is still fairly simple and much preferrable over the rethread type.Comfort	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on itComfort	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Comfort	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Comfort	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Comfort	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Comfort	Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much . But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing. My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions. I have a 2003 Maxima which has a slight bump in the middleComfort	This is a great car seat. I did a lot of research on safety price etc. before buying this one.  I actually bought two one for my car and one for my husbands car.  We were very pleased with it.  Both were delivered super fast and in perfect condition.  Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars. Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. All I can say is this was a great purchase for our family.Comfort	Im glad we had the Chicco Keyfit 30 when our guy was an infant. Im sure this is safe enough but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient. Even though my son isnt quiet 1 yet he was ready for a more toddler friendly seat. This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him. I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.Comfort	Love this car seat   After extensive research and practically being settled on the Britax Advocate I feel like you get what you pay for I was told about this car seat and figured I would give it a try.  Worse case I would just use it in my husbands car and then order the Britax for my car.  No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.  I am going to order another one of these for my husbands car.  It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Comfort	#N/AComfort	#N/AComfort	#N/AComfort	#N/AComfort	#N/AComfort	#N/AComfort	#N/AComfort	#N/AComfort - Breathability	This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped inComfort - Heat	May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.Comfort - Material	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I Comfort - Material	It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Comfort - Material	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Comfort - Padding	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingComfort - Space	she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Comfort - Space	I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat.Comfort - Space	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.  Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my sonComfort - Wings	He seemed very comfortable in it and I liked that the extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.Comfort & Safety	very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy dutyComfort And Ease Of Install	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Comfort And Installation	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsComfort And Safety	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Comfort And Safety	Normally he literally fights and struggles when it is time to get into the the car but not this time. I love this chair  My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secureComfort Of Child	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Comfort Of Child And Parent Infant car seat	this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.Comfort Safety	its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.Comfort Safety	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Comfort/Safety	This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touchComfort/Safety	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Comfort/Safety	she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves itComfort/Safety	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Comfort/Safety	Ive purchased SnugRides in the past but this is the first one to have a serious lack of adequate padding.  Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEATComfort/Safety	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of chargeComfort/Safety	he biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Comfortability	seemed very comfortableComfortability	comfortable on my babys skinComfortability	The seat was comfortable lookingComfortability	very nice fabric thats soft to the touchComfortability	excellent padding and very nice soft fabricComfortability	 very comfortable and appears to be very safeComfortability	where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingComfortability	protects my little girl and it provides comfert for herComfortability	Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my sonComfortability	material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyComfortability	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secureComfortable	ComfortableComfortable	comfortable Comfortable	 comfortableComfortable	so much roomComfortable	 so comfortableComfortable	fits comfortablyComfortable	5.0 out of 5 stars Comfortable	well constructed and pretty comfyComfortable	very comfortable for a little babyComfortable	 True Fit convertable car seat is amazingComfortable	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerComfortable	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Comfortable	its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.Comfortable	 its very comfortable and appears to be very safeComfortable	 soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyComfortable	Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my sonComfortable	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin.Comfortable	 it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Comfortable	 it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Comfortable	 Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin.Comfortable	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Comfortable	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Comfortable	For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Comfortable	son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. Comfortable	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfortable	 My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfortable	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Comfortable	  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfyComfortable	  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy. Comfortable	 trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base.Comfortable	Normally he literally fights and struggles when it is time to get into the the car but not this time. I love this chair  My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Comfortable	This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him. I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.Comfortable	 it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it. Im just thinking how happy she will be when she gets turned around in a few months. This will even work for newborns. if I had known that I would have gotten this a long time ago.Comfortable	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Comfortable	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.  Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.  I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.  Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my sonComfortable And Safe	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levelsComfortable Texture	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyComfortable Usage Lightweight	felt good in my handComfortable Usage Lightweight	Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.Comfortness	comfortableComfortness	son fits comfortably in it and has so much roomComfortness	material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyComments	#N/AComments#price	#N/ACompactability Digital single-lens reflex camera Shutter lag 135 film	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Company Customer Service Suede Plush	new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of chargeCompany Sent Woman New Cover Free	sent me a new cover Compared To Other Cameras Point-and-shoot camera Camera	For a begginer in the professional photography area I definetly see an ocean of difference between the t2i and point and shoot cameras.Comparing Another Nodel On Board (film)	bought this seat for my son who is now 8 months old.  I got it because I already have the Safety 1st Air Protect On Board 35 SE Infant Car Seat which I love. Comparison Nikon D3100 Canon EOS (company)	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraComparison Nikon D3100 Canon EOS (company)	Ive compared Canon EOS t2i with Nikon D3100 and finally I picked D3100.Comparison Nikon D3100 Canon EOS (company)	according to the experts there is really not much difference betrween t2i and the t3iComparison Nikon D3100 Canon EOS (company)	Since I have switched from Nikon to Canon a lot of my review is based on comparison to Nikon.Comparison Nikon D3100 Canon EOS (company)	Ive compared Canon EOS t2i with Nikon D3100 and finally I picked D3100. I am very happy about the decision.Comparison Nikon D3100 Canon EOS (company)	The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Comparison Nikon D3100 Canon EOS (company)	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take.Comparison Nikon D3100 Canon EOS (company)	In hindsight The nikon D5100 has a better larger DX sensor vs canon APS sized sensor sensor. So less noise on the Nikon.Comparison Nikon D3100 Canon EOS (company)	Im glad to have this camera it has everything comparable to canon t2  1080p movie 14.2 mp 502g light weight. 3 inch screen Comparison Nikon D3100 Canon EOS (company)	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motorComparison Nikon D3100 Canon EOS (company)	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keepComparison Nikon D3100 Canon EOS (company)	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.Comparison Nikon D3100 Canon EOS (company)	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.Comparison Nikon D3100 Canon EOS (company)	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.Comparison Nikon D3100 Canon EOS (company)	I had been taking pictures with my roommates Canon EOS t2i for months and then I decided to get my own entry-level DSLR. Ive compared Canon EOS t2i with Nikon D3100 and finally I picked D3100. I am very happy about the decision.Comparison Nikon D3100 Canon EOS (company)	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am sure the Nikon D5100 is a spectacular camera and it sports a larder image sensor than the Canon. I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.Comparison Nikon D3100 Canon EOS (company)	ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Comparison Nikon D3100 Canon EOS (company)	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Comparison Of Lcd Screen To T2i Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Canon (company) Display	 Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Comparison To T2i 1080p Liquid crystal display	and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keepComparison To T2i 1080p Liquid crystal display	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.Comparison To T2i 1080p Liquid crystal display	 Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Comparison To T2i 1080p Liquid crystal display	 has everything comparable to canon t2  1080p movie 14.2 mp 502g light weight. 3 inch screen Comparison To T2i 1080p Liquid crystal display	The articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i.Comparison To T2i 1080p Liquid crystal display	 At a glance the camera has a good feel to it and overall has the same features as the T2i. The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take.Comparison To T2i 1080p Liquid crystal display	 At a glance the camera has a good feel to it and overall has the same features as the T2i. The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Comparison To T2i 1080p Liquid crystal display	 At a glance the camera has a good feel to it and overall has the same features as the T2i. The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menu. The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not.Comparison To T31	 If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is differentComparison Vs T2i	Im a film student and was trying to decide between a t3i and Nikon 5100. everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera. the 600d has better continuous recording you have better manual capabilities. after a lot research i decided to go with the canon i went with a t3i and not a t2i for the flip around screen. i shoot in awkward positions sometimes and it defiantly comes in handyComparison With T3i	direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keepComparison With T3i	 according to the experts there is really not much difference betrween t2i and the t3i.Compatability	Nikon suggests certain memory cards that they certified to use with this camera. Complications	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards. They would have rested on the middle seats.  Other than that it is an awesome seat.  It holds tComponents	guide modeComponents	guide modeComponents	No Flip-out LCDComponents	head rest is removableComponents	No thread adjustable strapsComponents	comes with head/neck support cushionComponents	14.2 mp 502g light weight. 3 inch screenComponents	The pictures at full 18MP take a lot of memoryComponents	base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levelsComponents	pretty easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easyComponents	rticulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2iComponents	7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.Components	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Components	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Components	son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly.  It isnt hard to get back on and it is nice that it pops off so it can go on either side but it is annoying when he gets it off and starts throwing it around.Components	No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.Confort	seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature Confort	provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves itCons	there is absolutely NO padding.Cons	The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car.CONS - Battery	Battery life is not too greatCONS - Wireless	 No wireless remoteCONS - Wireless	GRID functions. These work only in LIVE VIEW MODE CONS - Wireless	 Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the qualityCons About Product Digital single-lens reflex camera Liquid crystal display Autofocus Pixel Nikon Canon (company) Megapixel Zoom lens Camera Single-lens Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor D3100	I will make a brief of my own experience of this camera to DSLR beginnersPros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Cons- Screen  Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display	Low resolution of LCD screenConstruction	serious lack of adequate paddingConstruction	form factor it wont weigh me downConstruction	the biggest is this darn sun visorConstruction	where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingConstruction	I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfyConstruction	Also my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly.Construction	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durableConstruction	We are able to use our Britax Marathon a Graco booster and this infant car seat all in one row.Construction	 Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.Construction	I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.Construction	Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day.Construction	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Construction	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. Construction	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Consumer Reports	I purchased this seat because it was rated Continuous Mode	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous modeContradiction Product description (business)	Currently the product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat.  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Control Usability User (computing)	with user-friendly controlsControls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	Easy to operateControls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	No wireless remoteControls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	user-friendly controlsControls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	user-friendly controlsControls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	solid and is easy to hold Controls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	 intuitive and pleasant to use.Controls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	No audio recording level adjustControls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	view finder is very clear and has all basic settings info on the bottom borderControls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known forControls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.Controls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.Controls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	 Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.Controls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	  I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.Controls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality Controls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quicklyControls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usuallControls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	Ergonomically the D3100 is the easier to use compared to the D5100 that had to relinquish four buttons to make room for the swivel screen of the D5100Controls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.Controls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for. Controls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	to make a living.  This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.  I chControls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bitControls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.Controls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	  I went so far as to query some industry professionals that use Canon DSLRs to make a living.  This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.Controls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode. I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possibleControls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	#N/AConvenience	head rest is removableConvenience	I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenientConvenience	Other than the issues in rear facing position this is a terrific seatConvenience	He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all hereConvenience	 Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Convenience	 head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Convenience	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsConvenience	Normally he literally fights and struggles when it is time to get into the the car but not this time.Convenience	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Convenience	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out thereConvenience	  I love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy.  It looks like it should be but does not feel like it is.  It appears to be a very sturdy camera.Convenience	Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup.Convenience	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.Convenience Infant car seat	I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenientConvenience Toddler	this seat makes it easy to do so.Convenient For Holding Cups	cup holder Convertability	 Im just thinking how happy she will be when she gets turned around in a few months.Cost Analysis	worth every pennyCost Of Lens Digital single-lens reflex camera (optics)	first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lensesCost Wallet	Cons- PriceCost Wallet	wallet friendlyCost Wallet	8GB card are 50Cost Wallet	a bit expensiveCost Wallet	its wallet friendlyCost Wallet	 its wallet friendlyCost Wallet	 its wallet friendlyCost Wallet	 its wallet friendlyCost Wallet	great deal for the priceCost Wallet	price is very reasonable.Cost Wallet	Bonus- its wallet friendlyCost Wallet	those of us who cant afford a Britax.Cost Wallet	out of stock at Amazon and also with 10Cost Wallet	prices were just too close to pass it upCost Wallet	I could not see myself spending that much Cost Wallet	Overall a very nice car seat for the priceCost Wallet	699  including the VR 55-200mm + camera bag with DVDCost Wallet	Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kitCost Wallet	The only mistake i did was i bought 2 different lens18-55 Cost Wallet	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraCost Wallet	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.Cost Wallet	money I saved on the camera I was able to purchase a telephoto lensCost Wallet	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonableCost Wallet	images from the D3100 are indistinguishable from the more expensive modelsCost Wallet	for 150 bucks less I do not need a rotating screen and other minute extended featuresCost Wallet	And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lensCost Wallet	And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.Cost Wallet	its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Cost Wallet	  Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Cost Wallet	at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backupCost Wallet	It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great productCost Wallet	T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100Cost Wallet	debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100Cost Wallet	Overall were really happy with this car seat.  It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.Cost Wallet	If your looking for a great Camera look no further you have found it  If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100Cost Wallet	ot it for 699  including the VR 55-200mm + camera bag with DVD .  i also used the transcend 32 gb class 10 from amazon for 50 work without any problems . also bought battery at amazon for 27  EN EL 14   way way  amazing purchase. i have probably saved  200-300Cost Wallet	#N/ACould Pair It With EF-S 17 55 Mm F/2.8IS Canon lens mount EF F-number	ly so that I could pair it with the EF-S 17-55mm f/2.8 IS Cover Velcro Shoe	he material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Cover Velcro Shoe	he material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Cover Velcro Shoe	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Crash Tested	side crash testedCrop	7D in a crop bodyCrop Body Camera Walkaround	Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera.Cup Holder	my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quicklyCup Holder	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Cup Holder	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Cup-holder	#N/ACupholder	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the boxCupholder	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box.Cupholder	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Cust Service Customer service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Satisfaction	VERY PLEASED   Customer Satisfaction	Average Customer ReviewCustomer Satisfaction	20 of 20 people found the following review helpfulCustomer Satisfaction	decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keepCustomer Satisfaction	Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers Customer Satisfaction	 customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-likeCustomer Satisfaction	As a first time Digital SLR buyer and user I love this camera and would highly recommend it to others.Customer Satisfaction	This body is rock solid and worthy of purchase for ANY and ALL people entering or needing an advanced DSLR camera.Customer Service service	free of chargeCustomer Service service	customer serviceCustomer Service service	customer serviceCustomer Service service	they sent me a new cover Customer Service service	 companies who please their customers Customer Service service	I purchased this seat because it was rated Customer Service service	Canon service is apparently better than nikonCustomer Service service	Both were delivered super fast and in perfect condition.Customer Service service	customer service with pictures and they sent me a new coverCustomer Service service	The car seat was delivered one day after I ordered it online.Customer Service service	came within 2 business days even though I did standard shipping.Customer Service service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new coverCustomer Service service	 Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers Customer Service service	 they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of chargeCustomer Service service	They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Customer Service service	They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Customer Service service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of chargeCustomer Service service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of chargeCustomer Service service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of chargeCustomer Service service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of chargeCustomer Service service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of chargeCustomer Service service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service	  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service	  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service	  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  Customer Service service	customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised.Customer Service service	  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprisedCustomer Service service	they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers Customer Service service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers Customer Service service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers Customer Service service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers Customer Service service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers Customer Service service	After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directlyCustomer Service service	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Customer Service service	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level.Customer Service service	ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.Customer Service service	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick. One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers D3100_price_coupon	649.00 549.0D5100 Nikon D3100	Ergonomically the D3100 is the easier to use compared to the D5100 that had to relinquish four buttons to make room for the swivel screen of the D5100Dark Venues Wedding photography	very specific use for it which is wedding photography and on dark venues the extra steps with the high ISO combined with large apertures on lenses provided the best combination for my needs.Darn Sun Visor	the biggest is this darn sun visorDedicated Iso Button	favorite thing is the dedicated iso button making it easy to change quickly.Dedicated Iso Button Making It Easy To Change	dicated iso button making it easy to change quickly.Delay	 the delays are still there.Delay	It makes a huge difference knowing you can press the shutter and the camera will instantly take a picture.  The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Delay	Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.Delays	frequent and unpredictable delaysDelays	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous modeDelays	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Delays	.  The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Delays In Continuous Mode	he T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Deliver	Both were delivered super fast Delivery	delivered one dayDelivery	delivered super fast Delivery	 delivered super fastDelivery	Both were delivered super fast and in perfect conditionDelivery	car seat was delivered one day after I ordered it online.Delivery	The car seat was delivered one day after I ordered it online.Delivery	The car seat was delivered one day after I ordered it online.Delivery	came within 2 business days even though I did standard shippingDelivery	came within 2 business days even though I did standard shippingDelivery	came within 2 business days even though I did standard shipping.Delivery	Excellent Product came within 2 business days even though I did standard shipping. Fit my newborns head with the extra cushion that came with it.  Loved the colors as well. Works perfectly with the Snap N Go stroller piece.Delivery From Seller	elivered one day after I ordered it onlineDelivery Speed	Amazon prime helped to get the delivery in a very shortest period which was not imaginable.TDelivery Speed	The car seat was delivered one day after I ordered it online. Which was outstanding. I took it out of the box and my 2 year old became giddy with excitement. Normally he literally fights and struggles when it is time to get into the the car but not this time. I love this chair  My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure. I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra. As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once.Delivery Time	delivered one day after I ordered it online. Which was outstandingDenial Of A Ongoing Problem Firmware	  Apparently this is a discussed firmware issue but Nikon claimed they hadnt heard about itDescription Is Bad Product description (business)	 the product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat.Design	Very bulky.Design	big car seatDesign	extremely mobileDesign	height is adjustableDesign	head rest is removableDesign	Big enough for a toddlerDesign	Material is easy to cleanDesign	buckle system is heavy dutyDesign	No thread adjustable strapsDesign	mesh and into the babys eyesDesign	a more toddler friendly seatDesign	higher weight limit as well.Design	no rethread harness is awesomeDesign	Light weight great body designDesign	ergonomic arrangement of controlsDesign	. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Design	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingDesign	It is a well made and designed car seatDesign	It is a well made and designed car seatDesign	really well constructed and pretty comfyDesign	designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Design	buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as wellDesign	a very tight space to use the light blue head restsDesign	but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Design	my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quicklyDesign	You do need a seat protector but youd need that with any car seatDesign	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.Design	head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still smallDesign	adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats.Design	adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats.Design	when my daughter falls asleep they hold her head up so its not bobbing all over the place.Design	s a good choice.  Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto Design	Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.Design	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issueDesign	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Design	the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyDesign	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I takeDesign	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfyDesign	I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Design	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels.Design	This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Design	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. Design	cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. Design	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal.Design	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Design	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Design	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Design	extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.  I love the no rethread harness and although it took me a bit to figure out how to work it it is still fairly simple and much preferrable over the rethread type.Design	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Design	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Design	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.  light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.Design And Operation Lightweight	. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.Design And Overall Weight Lightweight	Light weight great body designDetachable Cup Holder	detachable one in the boxDetailed Zoom Adobe Photoshop	I took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality. I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer.Develop Over Time	Starting off on full auto moving through the different pre-determined settings sports portrait landscape etc and the into the manual modes.  I figure Im another year or so with this and Ill be ready to upgrade to the 7D and pass this on to my daughter.Diffcult To Install	.  Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick. One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of aDifferent Kinds Of Photos	 I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazingDifferent Level Adjustmenst	car seat. It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. I highly recommend this it item.Different Shots	I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing.Difficult To Install	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickDifficult To Install Rear Facing	difficult to install it rear facing.Digital 3X Zoom	Digital 3x zoom in video mode.Dimension- Weight Capability	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbsDimensions	Very bulky.Dimensions	head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Dimensions	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Dimensions	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out thereDimensions	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Dimensions	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards. They would have rested on the middle seats.Dimensions	he biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out.Display Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	No Flip-out LCDDisplay Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	Low resolution of LCD screen.Display Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screenDisplay Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	 The articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i.Display Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flashDisplay Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.Do Not Have A Built In Focus Motor Nikon D5100 Image sensor Autofocus	kon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am sure the Nikon D5100 is a spectacular camera and it sports a larder image sensor than theDSLR Digital single-lens reflex camera	T2i is the Best Entry Level DSLRDull Photos Nikon D3100 Film speed	with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.Dur	#N/ADurability	durable enouDurability	very durableDurability	 well constructedDurability	well made and designedDurability	nice and heavy very durableDurability	is nice and heavy very durableDurability	appears to be a very sturdy cameraDurability	rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking itDurability	 very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durableDurability	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonableDurability	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durableDurability	I have a baby on the way and know the seat will be durable enough to withstand constant use through 2 children Durability	I have a baby on the way and know the seat will be durable enough to withstand constant use through 2 children Durability	he seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyDurability	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Durability	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyDurability	Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all dayDurability	Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day.Durability	 Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day. Durability	The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm gripDurability	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well.Durability	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well. Durability	#N/ADurability And Size Tamron	Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day.  I have used the f1.8 and the Tamron 70-300 lenses as well as the kit lens and love learning every day with it.Durable	heavy very durableDurable	ice and heavy very durableDurable	 holds a child up to 65lbsDurable	nice and heavy very durableDurable	 is nice and heavy very durableDurable	well constructed and pretty comfyDurable	seat will be durable enough to withstand constant use through 2 childrenDurable	f is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well.Ease Of Acess	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of Ease Of Cleaning Headrest	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingEase Of Cleaning Headrest	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come offEase Of Cleaning Headrest	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin.Ease Of Cleaning Headrest	 Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin.Ease Of Cleaning Headrest	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Ease Of Cleaning Headrest	he  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easilyEase Of Cleaning Headrest	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easilyEase Of Cleaning Headrest	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come offEase Of Getting Child In And Out	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durableEase Of Installation	easly instaledEase Of Installation	Easy to installEase Of Installation	Easy to installEase Of Installation	Easy to installEase Of Installation	VERY easy to instalEase Of Installation	difficult to installEase Of Installation	easy to use and installEase Of Installation	easly instaled it in the carEase Of Installation	 set this up in about 7 minutesEase Of Installation	nd easly instaled it in the car.Ease Of Installation	It is so easy to use and installEase Of Installation	It is so easy to use and installEase Of Installation	It is so easy to use and install Ease Of Installation	VERY easy to install base in car.Ease Of Installation	VERY easy to install base in car.Ease Of Installation	VERY easy to install base in car.Ease Of Installation	 its a little difficult to installEase Of Installation	  It is so easy to use and install Ease Of Installation	The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well.Ease Of Installation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutesEase Of Installation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes.Ease Of Installation	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars.Ease Of Installation	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Ease Of Installation	My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing.Ease Of Installation	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durableEase Of Installation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Ease Of Installation	Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do.Ease Of Installation	They were pretty easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats.Ease Of Installation	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars. Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. Ease Of Installation	easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.Ease Of Installation	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Ease Of Installation	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.Ease Of Installation	The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra. As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once.Ease Of Use	simple menuEase Of Use	Ease of useEase Of Use	Ease of useEase Of Use	best balanceEase Of Use	Easy to operateEase Of Use	easy to understandEase Of Use	flip out LCD screenEase Of Use	Its extremely mobileEase Of Use	user-friendly controlsEase Of Use	This is my first DSLR Ease Of Use	 Best Entry Level DSLREase Of Use	solid and is easy to holdEase Of Use	easly instaled it in the carEase Of Use	easy to get baby in and out ofEase Of Use	about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lensEase Of Use	recommend this for long term useEase Of Use	It is so easy to use and install Ease Of Use	VERY easy to install base in car. Ease Of Use	  It is so easy to use and install Ease Of Use	i loved the guide mode when in doubt use guideEase Of Use	car seat is very easy to get baby in and out ofEase Of Use	buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as wellEase Of Use	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing positionEase Of Use	all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels naturalEase Of Use	the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menuEase Of Use	It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.Ease Of Use	 LOVE this camera. Its extremely mobile. I can just flip open my tripod lock and GO Ease Of Use	ighly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at aEase Of Use	trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lensesEase Of Use	simple menu. The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not.Ease Of Use	What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shotsEase Of Use	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the pictureEase Of Use	For ease of use IQ form factor it wont weigh me down etc. I feel as if the D3100 was a great purchase.Ease Of Use	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.Ease Of Use	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.Ease Of Use	Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode so it acts like a point and shootEase Of Use	  Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode so it acts like a point and shootEase Of Use	the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyEase Of Use	right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forEase Of Use	the D3100 is the easier to use compared to the D5100 that had to relinquish four buttons to make room for the swivel screen of the D5100Ease Of Use	Starting off on full auto moving through the different pre-determined settings sports portrait landscape etc and the into the manual modesEase Of Use	T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous modeEase Of Use	The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.Ease Of Use	YOU CANT GO WRONG WITH THIS CAMERA   It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.  It is very user Friendly and Fun to use.Ease Of Use	Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup.Ease Of Use	 It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.Ease Of Use	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bitEase Of Use	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Ease Of Use	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Ease Of Use	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficultEase Of Use	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Ease Of Use	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Ease Of Use	  I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.  The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual modeEase Of Use	As a first time Digital SLR buyer and user I love this camera and would highly recommend it to others.  We took about 300 pictures at a Thanksgiving get together and a few other people tried the camera out and were impressed as well.I am not a professional so please dont take my opinion as someone acting as an authority on this subject but as a first time user I am happy and hope my review will help any other first time digital camera fans out there.  Thanks.Ease Of Use	  The view finder is very clear and has all basic settings info on the bottom border.  The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRs. Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger with a swing-out plug.  This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.Ease Of Use	I looked at many items before pulling the trigger on the Canon T3i. I went to Best buy and tested out the Canon T2i the Nikon D5100 the Canon 60D and the Nikon D7000. After testing out all the products I came to the decision that the only cameras I liked that felt good in my hand were the Canon T2i Nikon D5100 and the Can T3i. I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal.Ease Of Use	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menu. The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not. I am a person to read through and learn the various features the camera has to offer. I am impressed with the lens that comes with the camera for the wide angle aspect of it due to a lot of places I shoot pictures there are a lot of people and requires me to get close to get the shot I wantEase Of Use	he camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.  The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode. I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.  The view finder is very clear and has all basic settings info on the bottom border.Ease Of Use	Well I have since done some research and participated in forums and found out there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photos.  You would expect Auto Modes to take easy great pictures in an entry level camera most people coming from point and shoot cameras.  If you want sharp pictures you have to use P S A or M modes with the D3100.  There you can control the ISO manually or use Auto ISO and choose a lower maximum ISO setting.  Apparently this is a discussed firmware issue but Nikon claimed they hadnt heard about it when I messaged themEase Of Use	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.  The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode. I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.  The view finder is very clear and has all basic settings info on the bottom border.  The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRs.Ease Of Use	#N/AEase Of Use	#N/AEase Of Use/installation	 and easly instaled it in the car.Ease Of Use/installation	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out ofEase Of Use/installation	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.Ease Of Use/installation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsEase To Clean	Hard to clean Ease To Use	 For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Ease To Use	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to useEasy  Wallet	It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Easy  Wallet	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well.Easy Install	VERY easy to install base in car. Easy Install	but it was easy if you read the instructions.Easy Install	rom when I opened the box and easly instaled it in the caEasy Installation	Easy to installEasy Installation	asly instaled it in the car. Easy Installation	It is so easy to use and installEasy Installation	VERY easy to install base in carEasy Installation	but it was easy if you read the instructions. Easy Installation	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars. Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. All I can say is this was a great purchase for our family.Easy Installation	trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.Easy Installation	I love this chair. from when I opened the box and easly instaled it in the car. it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it. Im just thinking how happy she will be when she gets turned around in a few months. This will even work for newborns. if I had known that I would have gotten this a long time ago.Easy Installation  Nissan Sentra	easly instaled Easy Installation  Nissan Sentra	The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra. As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once.Easy Instilation	 love this chair. from when I opened the box and easly instaled it in the car. it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it. Im just thinking how happy she will be when she gets turned around in a few months. This will even work for newborns. if I had known that I would have gotten this a long time ago.Easy Operation Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Easy Set Up	 set this up Easy To Carry	Relatively light Easy To Clean	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. All I can say is this was a great purchase for our familEasy To Clean	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Easy To Clean  Headrest	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come offEasy To Clean  Headrest	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. Easy To Clean  Headrest	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Easy To Install	really easy to installEasy To Install	easy to use and install Easy To Install	It is so easy to use and instalEasy To Install	VERY easy to install base in carEasy To Install	VERY easy to install base in car. Easy To Install	I also find it really easy to installEasy To Install	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutesEasy To Install	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. Easy To Install	from when I opened the box and easly instaled it in the carEasy To Install	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsEasy To Install	It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great productEasy To Install	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.Easy To Install	 VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.  light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.Easy To Use	Ease of useEasy To Use	 ease of usEasy To Use	Ease of useEasy To Use	Easy to operateEasy To Use	Easy to operate.Easy To Use	I am not a professional so please dont take my opinionEasy To Use	the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well.Easy To Use	What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.Easy To Use	good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.Easy To Use	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.Easy To Use	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Easy To Use And Install	It is so easy to use and installEasy To Use Learning Curve	Its my first digital SLR Ive had it for about a year and I love it.  The T3i is out now so thats probably a better bet but I love the fact that I can slowly advance my knowledge of the SLR usage as I go.  Starting off on full auto moving through the different pre-determined settings sports portrait landscape etc and the into the manual modes.Easy To Use When Reading Instructions	easy if you read the instructionsEditing Adobe Photoshop	zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed pictureEfficiency	easly instaled it in the car.Efficiency	VERY easy to install base in carEfficiency	fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan SentraEfficiency	 wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easilyEquipment Autofocus Digital zoom	No autofocus when zoomingEr	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Ergonomic Arrangement Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge)	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to useErgonomic Arrangement Of Controls Ergonomics	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.  The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode. I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.  The view finder is very clear and has all basic settings info on the bottom border.  The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRs.Ergonomic Button Settings Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge)	  I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge)	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge)	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to useErgonomics Intuition (knowledge)	Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all dayErgonomics Intuition (knowledge)	Ergonomically the D3100 is the easier to use compared to the D5100 that had to relinquish four buttons to make room for the swivel screen of the D5100.Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge)	The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRs. Battery life seems to be very good - loErgonomics Intuition (knowledge)	The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge)	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bitErgonomics Intuition (knowledge)	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge)	 Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge)	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge)	1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Excellent Still Photos Compared To Competitors	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPExpensive Memory Card Required	Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or moreExperience	please their customersExperience	 is so easy to use and installExpertise	upgraded from a Canon 20D Expertise	great for intermediate shooters Expertise	loved the guide mode when in doubt use guideExpertise	update to the Nikon D3000 that a friend of mine has.Expertise	compared Canon EOS t2i with Nikon D3100 and finally I picked D3100Expertise	this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.Expertise	looking seriously at the Canon T2i and the Nikon D3100.  For the money the D3100 cant be beat.  What sold me was the guide modeExpertise	For a begginer in the professional photography area I definetly see an ocean of difference between the t2i and point and shoot camerasExposure And Image Quality Wedding photography	very specific use for it which is wedding photography and on dark venues the extra steps with the high ISO combined with large apertures on lenses provided the best combination for my needs.External	he 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly.External Flash	The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.External Flash	The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.External Flash	The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.Extra Base	correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level.Extra Features	you can recline it at 3 different levels.Extra Features	T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is differentExtra Features	head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Extra Features	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Extra Features	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily Extra Features	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Extra Features	3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingExtra Features	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.Extra Features	Cons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingExtra Features	Cons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingExtra Features	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun outExtra Features	I chose the t2i over t3i because I didnt feel I would need to use the movable lcd screen and couldnt justify spending that much money on it. If you are condsidering the t3i go ahead and get the 60d. If youd like to see the work I have done with my t2i and 50mm.Extras Damnation	he biggest is this darn sun visoExtras Damnation	Disappointed they offer HDMI input but dont provided the cable.Fabric	This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touchFabric	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Fabric Quality Sun visor	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Fabric Wears Easily	seat coverFacing Rear	 extremely difficult to install it rear facingFairly Priced	the price is very reasonable.Fast Auto Focus Autofocus	Very fast auto focusFast Continuous Mode	The T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode Fast Startup	Fast start up speedFeature Comparison Shutter lag (photography)	the guide modeFeature Comparison Shutter lag (photography)	a lot of my review is based on comparison to Nikon.Feature Comparison Shutter lag (photography)	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Feature Comparison Shutter lag (photography)	 I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparisonFeature Comparison Shutter lag (photography)	Well I have since done some research and participated in forums and found out there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.Feature Comparison Shutter lag (photography)	No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingFeature Comparison Shutter lag (photography)	Apparently this is a discussed firmware issue but Nikon claimed they hadnt heard about it when I messaged them...  Well go take a look at the forums out there it is an issue for those of us who expect quality shots in all modes. Feature Comparison Shutter lag (photography)	Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFeature Comparison Shutter lag (photography)	1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Feature Comparison Shutter lag (photography)	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iFeature Comparison Shutter lag (photography)	1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Feature Vs Price	 If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	so much roomFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	extra cushionFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	easy to installFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	easy to installFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	Easy to install Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	loved the guide modeFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	has very nice fabricFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	do not clean easily Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	The seat is giganticFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	. No wireless remoteFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	 it is a big car seatFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	head rest is removableFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	head rest is removableFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	and it fits just fine. Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	Loved the colors as well.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	I do NOT love cleaning it.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	No thread adjustable strapsFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	 holds a child up to 65lbs Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	it provides comfert for herFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	easly instaled it in the carFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	higher weight limit as well.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	issues in rear facing positionFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	 visor and made the new base aFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	is nice and heavy very durableFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	No audio recording level adjustFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	It is so easy to use and install Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	VERY easy to install base in car.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	 its a little difficult to install Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	t has a higher weight limit as wellFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	 has a higher weight limit as well. Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	comes with head/neck support cushion.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	essentially sitting on the hard plasticFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	overall has the same features as the T2iFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	my little ones head did not hang over once.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as wellFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	a very tight space to use the light blue head restsFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out ofFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touchFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well. Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	nstall was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our carsFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	Disappointed they offer HDMI input but dont provided the cable.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quicklyFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quicklyFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushionFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	  I also dont like some of the colors but that is personal preference.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keepFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	big enough rear facing all the way until two years old which is what the apa recommends.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levelsFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	 It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levelsFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shotsFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	The articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	the quality and sound you would have thought I used a real video camera and not one from a cameraFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out thereFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still smallFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	Big enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	  Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	The pictures at full 18MP take a lot of memory. Better get some means of decent storage space 750-1TB hardrive will doFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	looking seriously at the Canon T2i and the Nikon D3100.  For the money the D3100 cant be beat.  What sold me was the guide mode.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	The articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i. The prices were just too close to pass it up. Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	 Picture quality on this t2i is stunning so many features that it will take me months to figure out how to really get the most out of this camera.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	At a glance the camera has a good feel to it and overall has the same features as the T2i. The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screenFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRs. Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards. They would have rested on the middle seats.  Other than that it is an awesome seat.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.  I have learned more using that mode in one week than from the weeks Ive spent reading books and websites.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	Ive purchased SnugRides in the past but this is the first one to have a serious lack of adequate padding.  Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEATFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levelsFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	Some of the reviews complain that the Air  wings  cause problems for the kid seeing out but their height is adjustable AND I really like that when my daughter falls asleep they hold her head up so its not bobbing all over the place.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	Currently the product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat.  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	he 600d has better continuous recording you have better manual capabilities. after a lot research i decided to go with the canon i went with a t3i and not a t2i for the flip around screen. i shoot in awkward positions sometimes and it defiantly comes in handy.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	After searching and searching for a DSLR camera I had almost convinced myself of the T2i. I resisted and ended up waiting to purchase the T3i which was the best decision I made. At a glance the camera has a good feel to it and overall has the same features as the T2i.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	Since initially posting Ive purchased these lenses Canon EF 75-300mm f/4-5.6 III USM Telephoto Zoom Lens for Canon SLR Cameras and Canon EF 50mm f/1.8 II Camera Lens and really like what the camera can do. Im more and more certain in the 5 stars I put on this review. Really love this cameraFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization	lk Video I have taken alot for Football and I can not believe the quality and sound you would have thought I used a real video camera and not one from a camera it has surpassed what I have expected for a camera I am unbelievably happy with my purchase. Amazon thank you for the quick delivery yet again Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	between a t3i and Nikon 5100. everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera. the 600d has better continuous recording you have better manual capabilities. after a lot research i decided to go with the canon i went with a t3i and not a t2i for the flip around screen. Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am sure the Nikon D5100 is a spectacular camera and it sports a larder image sensor than the Canon. I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	  The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car. I currently live in Japan where my hubby is currently stationed with the USMC.  We drive a large van similar to the old Chevy Astro van.  This seat would onlt fit in the 2nd row in the middle seating position so that it came up almost through the 2 front seats.  I doubt this seat would fit into any other position in any car.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	I went to Best buy and tested out the Canon T2i the Nikon D5100 the Canon 60D and the Nikon D7000. After testing out all the products I came to the decision that the only cameras I liked that felt good in my hand were the Canon T2i Nikon D5100 and the Can T3i. I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal. Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick. One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	 This camera is very tight on power consumption and has extreme accuracy when you set it for pinpoint focusing as I do for model and portrait photography work. The macro features are also on par with its more advanced and WAY higher priced big brothers to this camera. Now the 18.1MP sensor.....WOW  The image sizes of the CMOS sensor allow me great latitude in adjusting and tweaking my RAW images anytime I wish to be creative. If you are just starting out are bored with the out of date  point-n-shoot  want to upgrade your digital cams or you want to move from film to digital the T3i will not disappoint. Its an excellent camera for ANY level of photographer - beginner or experienced pro this camera really shines. Oh and the video.....Its 1080p HD nothing more needs to be said.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization	Ill inform the public so they too can enjoy ALL of the features of this outstanding camera. The articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i. The prices were just too close to pass it up. Ill be adding more T3i and T2i cameras to my photo biz in the coming months as well as trying out the IS lenses. This camera is very tight on power consumption and has extreme accuracy when you set it for pinpoint focusing as I do for model and portrait photography work. The macro features are also on par with its more advanced and WAY higher priced big brothers to this camera. Now the 18.1MP sensor.....WOW  The image sizes of the CMOS sensor allow me great latitude in adjusting and tweaking my RAW images anytime I wish to be creative. If you are just starting out are bored with the out of date  point-n-shoot  want to upgrade your digital cams or you want to move from film to digital the T3i will not disappoint. Its an excellent camera for ANY level of photographer - beginner or experienced pro this camera really shines. Oh and the video.....Its 1080p HD nothing more needs to be said. Canon yoFeatuures	 third childFeedback	have friends who love itFeel Canon EOS 20D	Somewhat Compact sizeEase of useFeel Canon EOS 20D	Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.Feel Canon EOS 20D	It is as many have explained before a little small as I was used to the bigger and heavier 20D body but I guess is just a matter of getting used to it.Feel Canon EOS 20D	  I love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy.  It looks like it should be but does not feel like it is.  It appears to be a very sturdy camera.Feel Canon EOS 20D	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Feel Canon EOS 20D	.  I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.File Size And Resolution	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPFilm	If you are just starting out are bored with the out of date  point-n-shoot  want to upgrade your digital cams or you want to move from film to digital the T3i will not disappoint.Filter UV filter (optics)	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare batteryFilter UV filter (optics)	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Firm Grip Use forms of explosives	ery adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm gripFirst DSLR 135 film Lens (optics)	18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensFirst Time Users Nikon D3100	For ease of use IQ form factor it wont weigh me down etc. I feel as if the D3100 was a great purchaseFirst Time Users Nikon D3100	I am not a professional so please dont take my opinion as someone acting as an authority on this subject but as a first time user I am happy and hope my review will help any other first time digital camera fans out there.  Thanks.FIt	seat is gigantic.FIt	doesnt move aroundFIt	size is pretty bigFIt	fine and snug as canFIt	The seat is gigantic.FIt	light bump in the middleFIt	Big enough for a toddlerFIt	I was able to fit it easilyFIt	It fit fine and snug as can beFIt	It fit fine and snug as can beFIt	 My son fits comfortably in itFIt	It fit fine and snug as can be.FIt	 It fit fine and snug as can beFIt	 It fit fine and snug as can be.FIt	it has fit really well in all carsFIt	fits comfortably in it and has so much roomFIt	ts very comfortable and appears to be very safeFIt	fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.FIt	car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move aroundFIt	  Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.FIt	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.FIt	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.FIt	This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to himFIt	 fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.FIt	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inFIt	 My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inFIt	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.FIt	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.FIt	not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is levelFIt	I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars.FIt	 This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him. I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.FIt	with the side impact shaping its a very tight space to use the light blue head rests shown in the listing picture.  I havent tested it out yet but just from the appearance I can tell its not going to workFIt	Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do. Again my little girl likes being in the seat and able to look out of the windows at the world around her. I would recommend this product to anyone I knew who was in need of a good car seat.FIt	#N/AFIt	#N/AFIt	#N/AFits Easy On Tripod	I can just flip open my tripod lock and GO  Fits In Even Small Cars	Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do. Again my little girl likes being in the seat and able to look out of the windows at the world around herFits Seats With No Problem	It fit fine and snug as can beFits Snug	5.0 out of 5 stars Fits Well In Cars	it has fit really well in all cars.Flash	Built-in flashFlash	Built-in flash is not so greatFlash	Built-in flash is not so greatFlash	Built-in flash is not so greatFlash	Built-in flash is not so greatFlash	Built-in flash is not so greatFlash	Built-in flash is not so great.Flash	frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashesFlash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle settingFlash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shadeFlash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shadeFlash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Flash	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Flash	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocusFlash	The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.Flash	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Flash	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Flash	 Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFlash	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFlash	#N/AFlash Performance Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Flip Around Screen For Different Positions	flip around screenFlip Out LCD Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display	No Flip-out LCDFlip Out LCD Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display	flip out LCD screenFlip Out LCD Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display	Low resolution of LCD screen.Flip Out LCD Screem	I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the videFlip Out Screen Frame rate Video	It is GREAT for skate/surf video because of its 60fps mode.  If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraFlip Out Screen Frame rate Video	After searching and searching for a DSLR camera I had almost convinced myself of the T2i. I resisted and ended up waiting to purchase the T3i which was the best decision I made. At a glance the camera has a good feel to it and overall has the same features as the T2i. The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take.Flip Out Screen Frame rate Video	Im a film student and was trying to decide between a t3i and Nikon 5100. everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera. the 600d has better continuous recording you have better manual capabilities. after a lot research i decided to go with the canon i went with a t3i and not a t2i for the flip around screen. i shoot in awkward positions sometimes and it defiantly comes in handyFlip Out Viewfinder Versus Standard On T2i Articulating screen Image stabilization	The articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i.Flip Screen	allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.Foccus in Live Mode Slow Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button	Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFocus - Lighting  Autofocus Canon (company)	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingFocus - Lighting  Autofocus Canon (company)	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Focus - Lighting  Autofocus Canon (company)	he T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Focus - Lighting  Autofocus Canon (company)	2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Focus - Lighting  Autofocus Canon (company)	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	video manual focusFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	built-in focus motorFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	Almost no low light auto focusFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	Almost no low light auto focusFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	Almost no low light auto focusFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	Almost no low light auto focus Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	Very fast auto focus on shootingFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	 Very fast auto focus on shooting.Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	Focus in live picture mode is slowFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	Focus in live picture mode is slowFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	Focus in live picture mode is slowFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	Focus in live picture mode is slowFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	No autofocus when zooming while taking videoFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focusFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the pictureFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow.Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow.Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor.Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor.Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor.Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor.Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	#NAME?Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	#NAME?Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	#N/AFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	#N/AFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	#NAME?Focus Speed Autofocus	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Focus Speed Autofocus	 Very fast auto focus on shootingFocusing And Flexibility CMOS	 This camera is very tight on power consumption and has extreme accuracy when you set it for pinpoint focusing as I do for model and portrait photography work. The macro features are also on par with its more advanced and WAY higher priced big brothers to this camera. Now the 18.1MP sensor.....WOW  The image sizes of the CMOS sensor allow me great latitude in adjusting and tweaking my RAW images anytime I wish to be creative.Focusing Motors Nikon D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Camera Color balance Film	Since I have switched from Nikon to Canon a lot of my review is based on comparison to Nikon.ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Foits With 2 Other Seats Infant car seat Child safety Britax	In anticipation of the arrival of our third child we bought this car seat to use in our sedan.  We didnt want to buy a new car or invest in all new car seats to make that happen.  We started shopping around and figure that a 17in. wide infant car seat will do.  I believe this is the only one that fits our need.  We are able to use our Britax Marathon a Graco booster and this infant car seat all in one row.  This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.For Any Photographer	ANY level of photographer For Armature Photographers And Beginners	the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.For Beginner Nikon D3100	I researched for several weeks looking seriously at the Canon T2i and the Nikon D3100.  For the money the D3100 cant be beat.  What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.  I have learned more using that mode in one week than from the weeks Ive spent reading books and websites.For Beginners Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics)	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR andFrequent Delays	frequent and unpredictable delaysFunction	The T2i is FASTFunction	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Functionality Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability	head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Functionality Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability	I have used the f1.8 and the Tamron 70-300 lenses as well as the kit lens and love learning every day with it.Functionality Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.Functionality Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.Functionality Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability	My only issue with the T3i concerns the GRID functions. These work only in LIVE VIEW MODE as Ive found so far. As soon as you move up to manual for full control you lose the grid I use the 3x3 which helps me set my composition. Yes I can use my eye to place an imaginary grid in the viewfinder but WHY when one is readily available.Fuzzy	 soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyGeneral Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	Excellent Beginners DSLRGeneral Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	T3i greater then nikon 5100General Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	I got it for 699  including the VR 55-200mm + camera bag with DVDGeneral Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital CamerasGeneral Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.General Performance	Battery life is not too greaGeneral Performance	T2i is the one I will keep.  WhyGeneral Performance	does not block my view since he is still small.General Performance	T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous modeGet Nice Complements	I have had it for a few months now and I get alot of great compliments on my pictures they are professionalGetting Child In And Out	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out ofGetting The Base In A Level Position	you cannot tell if the car seat is level. Good Camera/lens Combo 1080p Raw image format	stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens comboGood Deal For The Price	I found this to be a great deal for the priceGood For Beginners Point-and-shoot camera Camera	For a begginer in the professional photography area I definetly see an ocean of difference between the t2i and point and shoot cameras. Picture quality on this t2i is stunning so many features that it will take me months to figure out how to really get the most out of this cGood For Carrying Around	light and smallGood For Even Newborns And Up	This will even work for newborns. if I had known that I would have gotten this a long time ago.Good For Infants And Toddlers Infant Toddler	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerGood For Motion Pictures Frame rate	t is GREAT for skate/surf video because of its 60fps mode.Good For Trips Digital single-lens reflex camera Shutter lag 135 film	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Good Lense Autofocus Digital single-lens reflex camera Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Shutter 135 film Canon (company) lag Point-and-shoot UV filter	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOther Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Good Low Light Shutter lag (photography)	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Good Overall Few Cons Infant car seat Chevrolet Astro Japan	I bought this seat for my son who is now 8 months old.  I got it because I already have the Safety 1st Air Protect On Board 35 SE Infant Car Seat which I love.  My son is still in his infant car seat but not for much longer.  I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit.  It is so high in fact that my 3 1/2 year old would still be able to be rear facing in this seat.  Rear facing is the safest way for small children to travel when in a car.  After purchasing this seat we took it for a test drive literally with the baby in it.  He seemed very comfortable in it and I liked that the extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.  I love the no rethread harness and although it took me a bit to figure out how to work it it is still fairly simple and much preferrable over the rethread type.Now for the cons.  The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car. I currently live in Japan where my hubby is currently stationed with the USMC.  We drive a large van similar to the old Chevy Astro van.  This seat would onlt fit in the 2nd row in the middle seating position so that it came up almost through the 2 front seats.  I doubt this seat would fit into any other position in any car.  My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing. Between my 3 kids Ive been through about 6 different convertible car seats in the past 8 years and this one was by far the most difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt.  At one point or another Ive had to install all of my previous car seats rear facing with the vehicle belt.  The instructions say to lift the seat pad when threading the belt through which I did but then once the seat was installed I couldnt get the pad back down over the seat where it was against the seat back of the actual vehicle seat.  So I had to uninstall it and reinstall it with the pad in its proper place making it very difficult to do.All in all I would definitely recommend this seat to others.Good Price	 price is very reasonableGood Quality For Videos	Takes good quality of videos.Good Service Nikon D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Camera Color balance Film	Since I have switched from Nikon to Canon a lot of my review is based on comparison to Nikon.ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Good Shipping Business day	Excellent Product came within 2 business days even though I did standard shipping. Fit my newborns head with the extra cushion that came with it.  Loved the colors as well. Works perfectly with the Snap N Go stroller piece.Good Shots	 I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing.Good Video 1080p	The best part was the 1080P video.Grainy Pictures	 grain in the pictureGreat Lens 135 film (optics)	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Great Shot Of Moving Characters American football High school in North America	My friends son is Captain of his High School Football team and I have gotten some great shots for him to send to recruiters and colleges now lets talk Video I have taken alot for Football and I can not believe the quality and soundGRID	My only issue with the T3i concerns the GRID functions.GRID	My only issue with the T3i concerns the GRID functions. GRID	As soon as you move up to manual for full control you lose the grid I use the 3x3 which helps me set my composition.GRID	GRID functions. These work only in LIVE VIEW MODE as Ive found so far. As soon as you move up to manual for full control you lose the grid I use the 3x3 which helps me set my composition. Yes I can use my eye to place an imaginary grid in the viewfinder but WHY when one is readily available.GRID	My only issue with the T3i concerns the GRID functions. These work only in LIVE VIEW MODE as Ive found so far. As soon as you move up to manual for full control you lose the grid I use the 3x3 which helps me set my composition. Yes I can use my eye to place an imaginary grid in the viewfinder but WHY when one is readily availableGRID	My only issue with the T3i concerns the GRID functions. These work only in LIVE VIEW MODE as Ive found so far. As soon as you move up to manual for full control you lose the grid I use the 3x3 which helps me set my composition. Yes I can use my eye to place an imaginary grid in the viewfinder but WHY when one is readily available.Grid Function	My only issue with the T3i concerns the GRID functions. These work only in LIVE VIEW MODE as Ive found so far. Grip Use forms of explosives	adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm gripGrip Use forms of explosives	 the only cameras I liked that felt good in my hand were the Canon T2i Nikon D5100 and the Can T3Grip Use forms of explosives	 very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.Guide	What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.  I have learned more using that mode in one week than from the weeks Ive spent reading books and websites.Guide Mode For Beginners	What sold me was the guide mode.Guide Mode Nikon D3100	guide mode. Guide Mode Nikon D3100	 guide mode Guide Mode Nikon D3100	 i loved the guide modeGuide Mode Nikon D3100	Also i loved the guide mode when in doubt use guide.Guide Mode Nikon D3100	For the money the D3100 cant be beat.  What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shotGuide Mode Nikon D3100	What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.  I have learned more using that mode in one week than from the weeks Ive spent reading books and websites.Guide Mode Nikon D3100	What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.  I have learned more using that mode in one week than from the weeks Ive spent reading books and websites.Guide Mode Nikon D3100	I researched for several weeks looking seriously at the Canon T2i and the Nikon D3100.  For the money the D3100 cant be beat.  What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.  I have learned more using that mode in one week than from the weeks Ive spent reading books and websites.  For the money I saved on the camera I was able to purchase a telephoto lens to go with it.  Worth every penny.  I look forward to many years of great photos.Guide Mode Nikon D3100	#N/AHad To Face Forward Because Of Size	rear facing positionHandling Lightweight	Light weight great body design.Happiness With One Over Other	Decided to get t2i over t3i. . .and happy I didHard To Clean	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come offHard To Clean	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.  Thats not so bad since she did not puke on that part except that I was not aware that the headrest pad is attached to another pad that continues down the back behind the main pad   So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.  Im having quite an interesting time getting the nasty puke smell out of it.All that to say - I still love a lot of things about this carseat but I do NOT love cleaning it.Harness	The no rethread harness is awesomeHarness	adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seatsHarness	I love the no rethread harness and although it took me a bit to figure out how to work it it is still fairly simple and much preferrable over the rethread typeHd Capability Slow motion	The best part was the 1080P video.Hd Capability Slow motion	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money coHd Capability Slow motion	 Oh and the video.....Its 1080p HD nothing more needs to be said. Canon youve been ROCKIN my images for 30+ years     Stay cool and keep up the greatHD Video 1080p	.Its 1080p HHD Video 1080p	ull-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR CameraHD Video 1080p	60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion HD Video 1080p	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion HD Video 1080p	 The best part was the 1080P video. I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good and my wife who is very difficult to please liked it so much that she said that next time we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100HD Video 1080p	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iCons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingHDMI Cable	 Disappointed they offer HDMI input but dont provided the cable.HDMI Capability	Disappointed they offer HDMI input but dont provided the cableHdmi Input But No Cable Included HDMI	offer HDMI inputHead Neck Support	5.0 out of 5 stars Head Rest Does Not Come Off	headrest DOES NOT come offHead Rest Headrest	 head rest is removableHead Rest Headrest	 head rest is removableHead Rest Headrest	headrest DOES NOT come offHead Rest Headrest	the head rest is removableHead Rest Headrest	headrest DOES NOT come off Head Rest Headrest	 the head rest is removableHead Rest Headrest	comes with head/neck support cushionHead Rest Headrest	head rest is removable which does not block my viewHead Rest Headrest	What I also love about it is the head rest is removableHead Rest Headrest	What I also love about it is the head rest is removableHead Rest Headrest	 head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Head Rest Headrest	 daughter falls asleep they hold her head up so its not bobbing all over the place.Head Rest Headrest	 I liked that the extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.Head Rest Headrest	the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by handHead Rest Headrest	I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still smallHead Rest Headrest	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Head Rest Headrest	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily  Head Rest Headrest	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small.Head Rest Headrest	#N/AHead Rest Is Removable Headrest	the head rest is removableHead Support Cushion	head/neck support cushionHead/neck Support	head/neck support cushionHead/neck Support Cushion	 head/neck support cushionHeadrest	its a very tight space to use the light blue head restsHeadrest	head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still smallHeadrest	the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by handHeadrest Comfortable	 As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once.Headrest Comfortable	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view Headrest Is Removable	head rest is removableHeadrest Is Removable	at I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small. If you see the video when shopping for a car Headrest Removable	head rest is removableHeavily Researched	I am a person to research and research againHeight Adjustment	Some of the reviews complain that the Air  wings  cause problems for the kid seeing out but their height is adjustable AND I really like that when my daughter falls asleep they hold her head up so its not bobbing all over the place.Height/Weight Limits	  I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit.  It is so high in fact that my 3 1/2 year old would still be able to be rear facing in this seat.Help Function Ugly Betty	My only issue with the T3i concerns the GRID functions. These work only in LIVE VIEW MODEHigh Definition Slow motion	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion High Iso Levels In Auto Mode Nikon D3100 Film speed	there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the settingHigh Resolution	 Now the 18.1MP sensorHigh Resolution	 Now the 18.1MP sensorHigh Speed And Memory Card card	 high speed memory cardHigh Weight Limit	 higher weight limit as well.Higher Cost	Excellent camera though a bit expensive - worth every pennyHighest Safety Rating	highest safety ratinHighest Safety Rating	highest safety rating.Hivemind	3 of 3 people found the following review helpfulHivemind	79 of 81 people found the following review helpfulHivemind	95 of 97 people found the following review helpfulHivemind	246 of 269 people found the following review helpfulHolding A Baby	head/neck support cushionHolding Camera In Awkward Positions	very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.Holding Camera In Awkward Positions	articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2iHolding Camera In Awkward Positions	articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason onlyHolding Weight	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Holds Child Up To 65 Pounds Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	  So I had to uninstall it and reinstall it with the pad in its proper place making it very difficult to do.Holds Up To 65 Lbs	5.0 out of 5 stars How Light It Is	not very heavy.I	Easy to installI	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.Image	White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.Image	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensImage	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.Image Quality	Picture quality on this t2i is stunningImage Quality	  The bottom line is that images from the D3100 are indistinguishable from the more expensive models.Image Quality	The T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to.  Image Quality	This body is rock solid and worthy of purchase for ANY and ALL people entering or needing an advanced DSLR camera.Image Quality	  Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera.  Ive taken some stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens combo.Image Quality	The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Image Quality	I will not go into extended technical aspects as I am person that is making a transition from an old point and shoot to this DLSR. Camera is just amazing. For a begginer in the professional photography area I definetly see an ocean of difference between the t2i and point and shoot cameras.Image Quality	 I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer. The quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it. I also took a picture of a cherry tree that was about 30 yards away and then opened it up in Photoshop zoomed in and could see cherries that I could not even see with my eyes from the spot where I took the picture.Image Quality	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Image Stabilazation stabilization	Built in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensImage Stabilisation stabilization	Built in image stabilizerImproved Default Lens 135 film (optics)	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.In	Easy to installIn	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Infant Acceptance car seat	He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.Infant Car Seat	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base.Infant Seat car seat	but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient. Info	 Ill be adding more T3i and T2i cameras to my photo biz in the coming monthsInfo	  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Instal	VERY easy to install base in carInstal	its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstall Time	I love this chair. from when I opened the box and easly instaled it in the car. it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it. Im just thinking how happy she will be when she gets turned around in a few months. This will even work for newborns. if I had known that I would have gotten this a long time ago.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	easy to installInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	Easy to installInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	Easy to installInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	Easy to installInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	pretty easy to installInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	easy to use and installInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	easy to use and install Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	so easy to use and installInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	little difficult to installInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	easly instaled it in the carInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	easly instaled it in the car.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	 easly instaled it in the car.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	VERY easy to install base in carInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	VERY easy to install base in carInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	VERY easy to install base in car.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	VERY easy to install base in car.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	It is so easy to use and install Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	hey are easy to install especially Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	It is so easy to use and install   Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	extremely difficult to install it rear facingInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	I did end up having my son install it for me. Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	easy to install especially as compared to the gracoInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our carsInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	 it really easy to install please do read all the directions firstInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	ts a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	es its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	 I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	 I had to uninstall it and reinstall it with the pad in its proper place making it very difficult to doInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do. Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	 seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars.  Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	set this up in about 7 minutes. If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	I have been using the graco snug ride 30 metropolis for 2 months now. So far I am only satisfied with this car seat.pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	  The instructions say to lift the seat pad when threading the belt through which I did but then once the seat was installed I couldnt get the pad back down over the seat where it was against the seat back of the actual vehicle seat.  So I had to uninstall it and reinstall it with the pad in its proper place making it very difficult to do.Install Use	  The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well.Install-ability  Chevrolet Astro Van (Malaysian satellite television)	We drive a large van similar to the old Chevy Astro van.  This seat would onlt fit in the 2nd row in the middle seating position so that it came up almost through the 2 front seats.  I doubt this seat would fit into any other position in any carInstallability	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstallability	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Installability	Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all carsInstallability	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Installability	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directlyInstallatin	hey were pretty easy to install Installation	it was easyInstallation	out 7 minutesInstallation	set this up iInstallation	easly instaledInstallation	Easy to instalInstallation	Easy to installInstallation	easy to installInstallation	Easy to installInstallation	Easy to installInstallation	Easy to installInstallation	Easy to installInstallation	Easy to installInstallation	Easy to installInstallation	Easy to installInstallation	Easy to installInstallation	Easy to installInstallation	Easy to installInstallation	Easy to installInstallation	Easy to installInstallation	Easy to installInstallation	Easy to installInstallation	Easy to installInstallation	Easy to installInstallation	Easy to installInstallation	Easy to installInstallation	easly instaled iInstallation	Easy to install Installation	Easy to install Installation	 Easy to install Installation	 Easy to install Installation	easly instaled itInstallation	difficult to installInstallation	difficult to installInstallation	 VERY easy to installInstallation	easy to install base iInstallation	really easy to installInstallation	pretty easy to installInstallation	instructions were simple Installation	Install was exteremly easyInstallation	VERY easy to install base Installation	Install was exteremly easyInstallation	little difficult to instalInstallation	Install was exteremly easyInstallation	so easy to use and installInstallation	little difficult to installInstallation	 so easy to use and installInstallation	difficult to install in carInstallation	easly instaled it in the caInstallation	easly instaled it in the carInstallation	Easy to install via my hubbyInstallation	fit really well in all cars.Installation	Easy to install via my hubbyInstallation	 so easy to use and install Installation	  Install was exteremly easyInstallation	easly instaled it in the carInstallation	easly instaled it in the carInstallation	Easy to install via my hubbyInstallation	Easy to install via my hubbyInstallation	easly instaled it in the carInstallation	easly instaled it in the carInstallation	a little difficult to installInstallation	 little difficult to install Installation	Easy to install via my hubby Installation	 easly instaled it in the carInstallation	easly instaled it in the car.Installation	 set this up in about 7 minutInstallation	easly instaled it in the car.Installation	 easly instaled it in the car.Installation	set this up in about 7 minutesInstallation	set this up in about 7 minutesInstallation	a little difficult to install Installation	 easly instaled it in the car.Installation	 set this up in about 7 minutesInstallation	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	It is so easy to use and installInstallation	They were pretty easy to installInstallation	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	It is so easy to use and installInstallation	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	It is so easy to use and installInstallation	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	It is so easy to use and installInstallation	It is so easy to use and installInstallation	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	 set this up in about 7 minutes.Installation	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	They were pretty easy to install Installation	VERY easy to install base in car.Installation	It is so easy to use and install Installation	It is so easy to use and install Installation	VERY easy to install base in car.Installation	 VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	 VERY easy to install base in carInstallation	It is so easy to use and install Installation	VERY easy to install base in car.Installation	It is so easy to use and install Installation	VERY easy to install base in car.Installation	VERY easy to install base in car.Installation	It is so easy to use and install Installation	VERY easy to install base in car.Installation	It is so easy to use and install Installation	VERY easy to install base in car.Installation	VERY easy to install base in car. Installation	  It is so easy to use and installInstallation	  It is so easy to use and install Installation	difficult to install it rear facingInstallation	  It is so easy to use and install Installation	 it was a little tricky to get it inInstallation	s easy if you read the instructions. Installation	It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation	it was easy if you read the instructionsInstallation	little difficult to install but you get thInstallation	 it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation	extremely difficult to install it rear facingInstallation	but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation	 but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation	I opened the box and easly instaled it in the carInstallation	The instructions were a little hard for me to followInstallation	The instructions were a little hard for me to followInstallation	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow Installation	The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as welInstallation	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.Installation	The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as wellInstallation	The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well.Installation	The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well.Installation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutesInstallation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutesInstallation	trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever.Installation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutesInstallation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutesInstallation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutesInstallation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutesInstallation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutesInstallation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutesInstallation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes.Installation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes.Installation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes.Installation	  The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well.Installation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes.Installation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes.Installation	I have a 2003 Maxima which has a slight bump in the middleInstallation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes.Installation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes.Installation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes.Installation	install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsInstallation	  The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well. Installation	 I have a 2003 Maxima which has a slight bump in the middleInstallation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. Installation	from when I opened the box and easly instaled it in the carInstallation	  The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well. Installation	but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever.Installation	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our carsInstallation	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars.Installation	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars.Installation	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars.Installation	Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in.Installation	this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move aroundInstallation	Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Installation	  Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars.Installation	cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the boxInstallation	 a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstallation	its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstallation	its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.Installation	My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facingInstallation	My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facingInstallation	My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facingInstallation	My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing.Installation	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation	My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing.Installation	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation	My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing.Installation	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation	pretty easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easyInstallation	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstallation	 VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstallation	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstallation	 VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation	 VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation	 VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstallation	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.Installation	as difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.Installation	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.Installation	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.Installation	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.Installation	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.Installation	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick. Installation	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions firstInstallation	  My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing. Installation	  Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.Installation	  Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.Installation	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation	They are easy to install especially as compared to the graco one we bought firstInstallation	They are easy to install especially as compared to the graco one we bought first.Installation	 instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it rightInstallation	side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levelsInstallation	The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it rightInstallation	The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it rightInstallation	The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it rightInstallation	The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.Installation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsInstallation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsInstallation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsInstallation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsInstallation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsInstallation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsInstallation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsInstallation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation	 I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsInstallation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions. Installation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions. Installation	 I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever.Installation	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Installation	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Installation	Big enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsInstallation	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsInstallation	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsInstallation	They were pretty easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats.Installation	They were pretty easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats. Installation	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow remember now I am the grandma and over 50 so please keep it simple Installation	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars. Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. Installation	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Installation	es its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick. One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of aInstallation	If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction bookletInstallation	If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction bookletInstallation	  It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Installation	You do need a seat protector but youd need that with any car seat.  I also dont like some of the colors but that is personal preference.Installation	 read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions. I have a 2003 Maxima which has a sligInstallation	The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.Installation	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives.Installation	really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securelyInstallation	dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. Installation	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quicklyInstallation	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the sInstallation	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seatInstallation	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Installation	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Installation	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Installation	 Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Installation	 Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Installation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions. I have a 2003 Maxima which has a slight bump in the middleInstallation	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow remember now I am the grandma and over 50 so please keep it simple   I did end up having my son install it for meInstallation	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securelyInstallation	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securelyInstallation	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securelyInstallation	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow remember now I am the grandma and over 50 so please keep it simple   I did end up having my son install it for me.Installation	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securelyInstallation	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow remember now I am the grandma and over 50 so please keep it simple   I did end up having my son install it for me. Installation	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.Installation	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.Installation	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.Installation	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.Installation	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely. Installation	  I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.Installation	  Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars. Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. All I can say is this was a great purchase for our family.Installation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Installation	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Installation	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.Installation	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it rightInstallation	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.Installation	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.Installation	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.Installation	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.Installation	They are easy to install especially as compared to the graco one we bought first. The no rethread harness is awesome. The seat was comfortable looking and big enough rear facing all the way until two years old which is what the apa recommends.Installation	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Installation	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.Installation	ros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.Installation	 But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing. My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation	trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely Installation	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Installation	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level.Installation	The instructions say to lift the seat pad when threading the belt through which I did but then once the seat was installed I couldnt get the pad back down over the seat where it was against the seat back of the actual vehicle seat.  So I had to uninstall it and reinstall it with the pad in its proper place making it very difficult to do.Installation	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.  Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.  Ive felt a lot of other car seats out there that feel like theyd be pretty hard to sit on and uncomfortable.Installation	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra.Installation	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Installation	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Installation	.  I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars.  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.  Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Installation	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.  light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.Installation	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Installation	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Installation	Between my 3 kids Ive been through about 6 different convertible car seats in the past 8 years and this one was by far the most difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt.  At one point or another Ive had to install all of my previous car seats rear facing with the vehicle belt.  The instructions say to lift the seat pad when threading the belt through which I did but then once the seat was installed I couldnt get the pad back down over the seat where it was against the seat back of the actual vehicle seat.  So I had to uninstall it and reinstall it with the pad in its proper place making it very difficult to do.Installation	  My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing. Between my 3 kids Ive been through about 6 different convertible car seats in the past 8 years and this one was by far the most difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt.  At one point or another Ive had to install all of my previous car seats rear facing with the vehicle belt.  The instructions say to lift the seat pad when threading the belt through which I did but then once the seat was installed I couldnt get the pad back down over the seat where it was against the seat back of the actual vehicle seat.  So I had to uninstall it and reinstall it with the pad in its proper place making it very difficult to do.Installation	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.  light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Installation	Rear facing is the safest way for small children to travel when in a car.  After purchasing this seat we took it for a test drive literally with the baby in it.  He seemed very comfortable in it and I liked that the extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.  I love the no rethread harness and although it took me a bit to figure out how to work it it is still fairly simple and much preferrable over the rethread type.Now for the cons.  The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car. I currently live in Japan where my hubby is currently stationed with the USMC.  We drive a large van similar to the old Chevy Astro van.  This seat would onlt fit in the 2nd row in the middle seating position so that it came up almost through the 2 front seats.  I doubt this seat would fit into any other position in any car.  My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing. Between my 3 kids Ive been through about 6 different convertible car seats in the past 8 years and this one was by far the most difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt.  At one point or another Ive had to install all of my previous car seats rear facing with the vehicle belt.  The instructions say to lift the seat pad when threading the belt through which I did but then once the seat was installed I couldnt get the pad back down over the seat where it was against the seat back of the actual vehicle seat.  So I had to uninstall it and reinstall it with the pad in its proper place making it very difficult to do.Installation	#N/AInstallation	#N/AInstallation	#N/AInstallation	#N/AInstallation	#N/AInstallation	#N/AInstallation  Minivan Odyssey	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Installation (Ease Of Use)	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily Installation And Others Headrest	Very bulkyInstallation And Others Headrest	big car seatInstallation And Others Headrest	cleaning it.Installation And Others Headrest	 exteremly easyInstallation And Others Headrest	easy to installInstallation And Others Headrest	 easly instaled Installation And Others Headrest	he size is pretty bigInstallation And Others Headrest	head rest is removableInstallation And Others Headrest	fit well in both of ouInstallation And Others Headrest	 easy to use and install Installation And Others Headrest	VERY easy to install baseInstallation And Others Headrest	little difficult to installInstallation And Others Headrest	No thread adjustable strapsInstallation And Others Headrest	light weight and fits well Installation And Others Headrest	set this up in about 7 minutesInstallation And Others Headrest	Material is easy to clean and comfortable Installation Ease	 VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabricInstallation Ease	 Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seatInstallation Easy	tall was exteremly easy and it fit well in botInstallation Easy	easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats. Other than the issues in rear facing position this is a terrific seat.Installation Process	Easy to installInstallation Process	ERY easy to install base in carInstallation Rear Seating	difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt. Installing	difficult to install Installing	easy to use and installInstalling	Easy to install via my hubbyInstalling	 I was able to fit it easily and securelyInstalling	easy to install please do read all the directions firstInstalling	easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids growInstalling	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutesInstalling	 VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installing	I love this chair. from when I opened the box and easly instaled it in the car.Installing	this one was by far the most difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt.Installing	 The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it rightInstalling	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsInstalling	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installing	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow remember now I am the grandma and over 50 so please keep it simple Installing	It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great producInstalling	The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Installing	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Installing	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Installing	y other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing. Between my 3 kids Ive been through about 6 different convertible car seats in the past 8 years and this one was by far the most difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt.  At one point or another Ive had to install all of my previous car seats rear facing with the vehicle belt.Instructions	guide modeInstructions	VERY easy to install base in car.Instructions	instructions were a little hard for me to followInstructions	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow Instructions	The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it rightInstructions	he instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Instructions	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Instructions	 I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Instructions	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions. I have a 2003 Maxima which has a slight bump in the middleInstructions Too Complicated	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow remember now I am the grandma and over 50 so please keep it simple   I did end up having my son install it for me.  The chair is excellent quality.Instuction Materials	The instructions were a little hard for me to followInterface Menu (computing)	Easy to operate.Interface Menu (computing)	The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode. I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.Intermediate Shooters Digital single-lens reflex camera	for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.Intuitive Controls	For ease of useIntuitive Controls	What sold me was the guide mode.Intuitive Controls	very intuitive and pleasant to use.Intuitive Controls	Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode so it acts like a point and shoot.IS	it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i. IS	The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.IS	ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.Is Good First Time Dslr 135 film Lens (optics)	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensIs Very Big	The size is pretty bigIso	I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for. Iso Button	my favorite thing is the dedicated iso button making it easy to change quickly.Iso Button	i would recommend this camera over any one on the market and shoots great in low lighting settings. all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels natural. my favorite thing is the dedicated iso button making it easy to change quickly.Iso Button	i would recommend this camera over any one on the market and shoots great in low lighting settings. all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels natural. my favorite thing is the dedicated iso button making it easy to change quickly.ISO Firmware Point-and-shoot camera	Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes.ISO Mode Nikon D3100 Film speed	here is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  It Has A Nice Wait To	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for tripsIt Is A Slow Camera DIGIC Digital single-lens reflex camera APS-C Canon EF-S lens mount 18-55mm EOS Image processing engine (company) EF CMOS	Canon EOS Rebel T3i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-Inch Clear View Vari-Angle LCD and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS LensIt Is Better Then The T3I 135 film Lens (optics)	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.It Is Good For On The Go.	It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lensesIt Take Fast Shots JPEG	I have the camera saving in both RAW and JPEG until I can get familiar enough to switch completely to RAW.  Saving in this format is 20MB a picture and this card has no trouble keeping upIt Take Good Video DIGIC APS-C Digital single-lens reflex camera Canon EF-S lens mount EOS 550D 18-55mm EF (company) Image processing engine CMOS	Canon EOS Rebel T2i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-inch LCD and and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS LensIt Take Nice Large Jpage Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens CMOS	Nikon D3100 16.2MP CMOS Digital SLR Camera with 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 AF-S DX VR Nikkor Zoom LensJust An Upgrade	Im a film student and was trying to decide between a t3i and Nikon 5100. everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera. the 600d has better continuous recording you have better manual capabilities. after a lot research i decided to go with the canon i went with a t3i and not a t2i for the flip around screen. i shoot in awkward positions sometimes and it defiantly comes in handy. i would recommend this camera over any one on the market and shoots great in low lighting settings. all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels natural. my favorite thing is the dedicated iso button making it easy to change quickly.Just As Pictured	 absolutely love this car seat. It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. I highly recommend this it item.Keeping Child Cool	This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped inKeeps Child Temperature At A Comfortable Level	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.  Some seats seemed too bulky and I know my daughter would be a sweaty mess in those styles.  This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped in.Kid Likes It Infant car seat	my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all hereKids Love It	 new saftey 1st car seat she loves itKit Lens	them will tell you they are crap lenseKit Lens	 if I could buy it again I would but not with the kit lensesKit Lens	Save yourself the headache of working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body.Kit Lens	Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensiveKit Lens	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lensesKit Lens	 I will say that if I could buy it again I would but not with the kit lenses yes it seems like a good deal. But anyone that knows cameras and knows their way around with them will tell you they are crap lenses.Kit Lens	I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer. The quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it. I also took a picture of a cherry tree that was about 30 yards away and then opened it up in Photoshop zoomed in and could see cherries that I could not even see with my eyes from the spot where I took the picture.Lack Of Padding	Not much padding in the seat part..Lack Of Padding	Ive purchased SnugRides in the past but this is the first one to have a serious lack of adequate padding.  Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEATLarge	 However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drivesLarge Seat Nissan Sentra	Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra.Large Size	The size is pretty bigLarger Car Seat Child safety seat	bigger than a lot of other car seats outLCD Display Image resolution Liquid crystal display	Low resolution of LCD screenLcd Pixel	230000 pixelsLcd Pixel	No Flip-out LCDLcd Pixel	Low resolution of LCD screenLcd Pixel	 Low resolution of LCD screenLcd Pixel	No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus wLCD Screen Articulated	No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issueLCD Screen Articulated	The articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i.LCD Screen Articulated	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menuLCD Screen Articulated	I went to Best buy and tested out the Canon T2i the Nikon D5100 the Canon 60D and the Nikon D7000. After testing out all the products I came to the decision that the only cameras I liked that felt good in my hand were the Canon T2i Nikon D5100 and the Can T3i. I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	 LCD screenLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	flip around screenLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	flip out LCD screenLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	articulating LCD screenLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	articulating LCD screenLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	articulating LCD screenLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	articulating LCD screenLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	 articulating LCD screen.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	Low resolution of LCD screenLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	Low resolution of LCD screenLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	Low resolution of LCD screenLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	 Low resolution of LCD screenLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	Low resolution of LCD screen.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	 Low resolution of LCD screen.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	Low resolution of LCD screen. LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screenLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	 Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixelsLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screenLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screenLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screenLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screenLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixelsLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixelsLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I takeLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	I chose the t2i over t3i because I didnt feel I would need to use the movable lcd screen and couldnt justify spending that much money on it.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100. LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge dealLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal. LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possibleLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menuLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	 I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.  The view finder is very clear and has all basic settings info on the bottom border.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	I came to the decision that the only cameras I liked that felt good in my hand were the Canon T2i Nikon D5100 and the Can T3i. I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	I resisted and ended up waiting to purchase the T3i which was the best decision I made. At a glance the camera has a good feel to it and overall has the same features as the T2i. The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menuLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	#N/ALCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display	#N/ALearning Nikon D3100 Canon (company)	 researched for several weeks looking seriously at the Canon T2i and the Nikon D3100.  For the money the D3100 cant be beat.  What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.Lens Compared To Others 135 film (optics)	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens Digital camera	crap lensesLens Digital camera	18-135mm lensLens Digital camera	18-135mm lensLens Digital camera	18-135mm lensLens Digital camera	18-135mm lensLens Digital camera	18-135mm lensLens Digital camera	The T2i is FASTLens Digital camera	d by Amazon.com.Lens Digital camera	item ships for FRELens Digital camera	The IS works really well Lens Digital camera	dont want to change lensesLens Digital camera	18-135mm lens is a nice upgradeLens Digital camera	f1.8 and the Tamron 70-300 lensesLens Digital camera	Focus in live picture mode is slowLens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgradeLens Digital camera	Focus in live picture mode is slow Lens Digital camera	Pair it with the lens of your choiceLens Digital camera	Pair it with the lens of your choiceLens Digital camera	14.2MP Digital SLR Camera with 18-55mmLens Digital camera	Canon 15-85mm f/3.5-5.6 EF-S Zoom LensLens Digital camera	the camera and lens seem to work very wellLens Digital camera	situation where you dont want to change lensesLens Digital camera	nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens Digital camera	No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens availableLens Digital camera	No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available.Lens Digital camera	go for a single lens which covers the entire rangeLens Digital camera	Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kitLens Digital camera	T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.Lens Digital camera	this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body cameraLens Digital camera	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPLens Digital camera	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPLens Digital camera	 this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body cameraLens Digital camera	 this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body cameraLens Digital camera	There are very many accessories and lenses for this camera.  Lens Digital camera	the kit lens that it comes with doesnt zoom far enough at all.Lens Digital camera	18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens Digital camera	18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens Digital camera	18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens Digital camera	18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens Digital camera	18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens Digital camera	his camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the monLens Digital camera	18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lenLens Digital camera	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the moneyLens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens Digital camera	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.Lens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens Digital camera	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.Lens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens Digital camera	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for tripsLens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens Digital camera	 The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens Digital camera	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoLens Digital camera	I will say that if I could buy it again I would but not with the kit lensesLens Digital camera	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens Digital camera	 I will say that if I could buy it again I would but not with the kit lensesLens Digital camera	 this camera.  Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or more.  I purchased two Lens Digital camera	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. EsLens Digital camera	 I am impressed with the lens that comes with the camera for the wide angle aspectLens Digital camera	 Canon 15-85mm f/3.5-5.6 EF-S Zoom Lens and than I will be in some serious businessLens Digital camera	And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lensLens Digital camera	 they are crap lenses. I wound up purchasing a 50mm 1.4 off a local photographer off CLLens Digital camera	I chose the t2i over t3i because I didnt feel I would need to use the movable lcd screenLens Digital camera	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus functionLens Digital camera	For the money I saved on the camera I was able to purchase a telephoto lens to go with it. Lens Digital camera	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function Lens Digital camera	Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body cameraLens Digital camera	Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera.Lens Digital camera	 Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera.Lens Digital camera	Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera.Lens Digital camera	If you are looking to do mainly surf but this camera BODY ONLY + a 18-135mm 55-200mm or 75-300mmLens Digital camera	The 18-135 lens is nice but a bit large. Maybe its large thats why the image quality is very good.Lens Digital camera	good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lensesLens Digital camera	But anyone that knows cameras and knows their way around with them will tell you they are crap lensesLens Digital camera	good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lensesLens Digital camera	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Lens Digital camera	good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lensesLens Digital camera	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Lens Digital camera	his kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light perforLens Digital camera	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Lens Digital camera	 I will say that if I could buy it again I would but not with the kit lenses yes it seems like a good dealLens Digital camera	I have used the f1.8 and the Tamron 70-300 lenses as well as the kit lens and love learning every day with it.Lens Digital camera	It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lensesLens Digital camera	It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lensesLens Digital camera	everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your cameraLens Digital camera	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Lens Digital camera	 everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera.Lens Digital camera	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus whLens Digital camera	Other Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Lens Digital camera	After reading many reviews and comparisons I decided on this camera as it is the update to the Nikon D3000 that a friend of mine has.Lens Digital camera	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Lens Digital camera	No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Lens Digital camera	No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Lens Digital camera	No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Lens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lensesLens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lensesLens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lensesLens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lensesLens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lensesLens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses.Lens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses.Lens Digital camera	to take high quality photos of fairly small works of sculpture art using the Canon 60mm macro lens.  For that use the camera and lens seem to work very wellLens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses.Lens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses.Lens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses.Lens Digital camera	his camera is very tight on power consumption and has extreme accuracy when you set it for pinpoint focusing as I do for model and portrait photography work.Lens Digital camera	- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses.Lens Digital camera	For that use the camera and lens seem to work very well.  I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.Lens Digital camera	Ive taken some stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens combo.  Save yourself the headache of working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body.Lens Digital camera	Im happy with my choice so far having purchased the camera first of all to take high quality photos of fairly small works of sculpture art using the Canon 60mm macro lens.Lens Digital camera	Save yourself the headache of working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body.  Pair it with the lens of your choice but I have no regrets with my 17-55mm purchase.Lens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for tripsLens Digital camera	especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possibleLens Digital camera	 Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.Lens Digital camera	I am impressed with the lens that comes with the camera for the wide angle aspect of it due to a lot of places I shoot pictures there are a lot of people and requires me to get close to get the shot I want.Lens Digital camera	I am impressed with the lens that comes with the camera for the wide angle aspect of it due to a lot of places I shoot pictures there are a lot of people and requires me to get close to get the shot I want.Lens Digital camera	I am impressed with the lens that comes with the camera for the wide angle aspect of it due to a lot of places I shoot pictures there are a lot of people and requires me to get close to get the shot I want.Lens Digital camera	 I am impressed with the lens that comes with the camera for the wide angle aspect of it due to a lot of places I shoot pictures there are a lot of people and requires me to get close to get the shot I wantLens Digital camera	 I will say that if I could buy it again I would but not with the kit lenses yes it seems like a good deal. But anyone that knows cameras and knows their way around with them will tell you they are crap lensesLens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in Lens Digital camera	Well I have since done some research and participated in forums and found out there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photosLens Digital camera	I am not a professional so please dont take my opinion as someone acting as an authority on this subject but as a first time user I am happy and hope my review will help any other first time digital camera fans out there.  Thanks.Lens Digital camera	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficultLens Digital camera	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficultLens Digital camera	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.Lens Digital camera	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.Lens Digital camera	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.Lens Digital camera	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.Lens Digital camera	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.Lens Digital camera	 of purchase for ANY and ALL people entering or needing an advanced DSLR camera. I purchased the body only - I have several lenses from my previous Canons which are NOT currently IS lenses. Ive been shooting people places and other thiLens Digital camera	Im a film student and was trying to decide between a t3i and Nikon 5100. everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera. the 600d has better continuous recording you have better manual capabilities.Lens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.Lens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.Lens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.Lens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.Lens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. Lens Digital camera	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.Lens Digital camera	Since initially posting Ive purchased these lenses Canon EF 75-300mm f/4-5.6 III USM Telephoto Zoom Lens for Canon SLR Cameras and Canon EF 50mm f/1.8 II Camera Lens and really like what the camera can do. Im more and more certain in the 5 stars I put on this review. Really love this camera.Lens Digital camera	They all said the t2i or t3i its a great starter camera and will profuce amazing pictures as well. I will say that if I could buy it again I would but not with the kit lenses yes it seems like a good deal. But anyone that knows cameras and knows their way around with them will tell you they are crap lenses. Lens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.Lens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.Lens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.Lens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.Lens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.Lens Digital camera	3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.OverLens Digital camera	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iLens Digital camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Lens Digital camera	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Lens Digital camera	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Lens Digital camera	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasLens Digital camera	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasLens Digital camera	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOther Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Lens Digital camera	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Lens Digital camera	#N/ALens Digital camera	#N/ALens Digital camera	#N/ALens Digital camera	#N/ALens Digital camera	#N/ALens Digital camera	#N/ALens Digital camera	#N/ALens Digital camera	#N/ALens Digital camera	#NAME?Lens Kit	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the moneyLens Kit	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.Lens Kit	Save yourself the headache of working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body.Lens Noise Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Lens Performance Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasLens Price	No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lensLens Quality Walkaround	ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body cameraLens Quality Walkaround	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOther Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Lens Quality Walkaround	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.  I conducted countless hours of research on Canons Nikons and even Sonys.  I was used to using point-and-shoots and small flip style video cameras to make my videos.  I looked into DSLRs and really wanted a canon.  YOU CANT GO WRONG WITH THIS CAMERA   It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.  It is very user Friendly and Fun to use.PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iCons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingLens/Range  Nikon D3100	 purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Lens/Range  Nikon D3100	I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.Lens/Range  Nikon D3100	everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera. the 600d has better continuous recording you have better manual capabilities. after a lot research i decided to go with the canon i went with a t3i and not a t2i for the flip around screen. i shoot in awkward positions sometimes and it defiantly comes in handy.Lens/Range  Nikon D3100	 went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal. The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am sure the Nikon D5100 is a spectacular camera and it sports a larder image sensor than the Canon. I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.Lense Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Lense Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle	Canon EOS Rebel T2i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-inch LCD and and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS LensLense Value 135 film Lens (optics)	 The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLight	 light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day.Light	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Light Weight	not very heavy.Light Weight	Relatively lightLight Weight	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Lighting	shoots great in low lighting settingsLighting	 shoots great in low lighting settingsLighting	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingLightweight	again good for trips.Lightweight	t.  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Lightweight	1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shootinLittle Shutter lag (photography)	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Live Picture Mode Slow Point-and-shoot camera Camera Focus (optics)	 Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasLive Picture Point-and-shoot camera Camera Focus (optics)	Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasLive View Feature Nikon D5000 preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Camera Color balance Film	Since I have switched from Nikon to Canon a lot of my review is based on comparison to Nikon.ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Long Term Adjustability	They were pretty easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seatsLong-lasting	ice and heavy very durableLooks	 but this seat is also stylish Looks	This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or styleLots Of Room	 so much roomLoud Autofocus Motors	 loud autofocus motorsLoud Autofocus Motors	 loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set minLow Battery Life Pixel Digital camera Megapixel Autofocus Liquid crystal display Nikon Canon (company) Zoom lens Camera Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor Single-lens reflex D3100	1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Low Battery Life Pixel Digital camera Megapixel Autofocus Liquid crystal display Nikon Canon (company) Zoom lens Camera Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor Single-lens reflex D3100	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Low Cost Wallet	its wallet friendlyLow Cost Wallet	i have probably saved  200-300  i would recommend this to anybody i know who is into DSLR. NIKON  way to go  Low LCD Resolution Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Low Light	shoots great in low lighting settingsLow Light	hoots great in low lighting settings. Low Light	 shoots great in low lighting settings. Low Light	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoLow Light	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingLow Light	The  better sensor  in the D5100 and D7000 at best has a bit more low light sensitivity Low Light	shoots great in low lighting settings. all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels natural. Low Light	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shadeLow Light AF Autofocus Long-exposure photography	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingLow Light Auto Focus Autofocus	Almost no low light auto focusLow Light Performance	good low-light performanceLow Light Shooting	shoots great in low lighting settings.Low Light Video	 shoots great in low lighting settingsLow Res Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display	 Low resolution of LCD screen.Low Res LCD Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.Low Resolution Led Screen Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Canon (company) Display	 Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixelsLow Resolution Of LCD Screen Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	 Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.Low Resolution Pixel Digital camera Megapixel Autofocus Liquid crystal display Nikon Canon (company) Zoom lens Camera Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor Single-lens reflex D3100	1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Low Weight	Relatively lightLow-light Performance	good low-light performanceMacro	macro features are also on par with its more advanced and WAY higher priced big brothers to this cameraMacro Shots Macrophotography	high quality photos of fairly small works of sculpture art using the Canon 60mm macro lensMaintenance	Material is easy to cleanMaintenance	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingMaintenance	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come offMaintenance	here is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.Maintenance	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily Manual Focus Firmware Point-and-shoot camera	Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes.Manual Focus Firmware Point-and-shoot camera	 the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor.Manual Focus Firmware Point-and-shoot camera	 This camera is very tight on power consumption and has extreme accuracy when you set it for pinpoint focusing as I do for model and portrait photography work. The macro features are also on par with its more advanced and WAY higher priced big brothers to this cameraManual Focus/video focus	video manual focusManual Mode	  The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode.Manufacturing	nice fabric thats soft to the touchMateri Customer service	emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of chargeMaterial	Material is easy to cleanMaterial	seat cover became scratchyMaterial	The material was soft and fuzzyMaterial	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingMaterial	excellent padding and very nice soft fabricMaterial	excellent padding and very nice soft fabricMaterial	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Material	 dont need to compromise on quality or styleMaterial	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Material	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Material	suede-like plush material -- free of charge  Material	but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Material	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skinMaterial	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skinMaterial	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin.Material	material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyMaterial	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyMaterial	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyMaterial	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyMaterial	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyMaterial	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyMaterial	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Material	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Material	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Material	material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happenMaterial	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Material	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happenMaterial	he material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Material	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Material	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Material	This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped in.Material	comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyMaterial	Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEATMaterial	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Material	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Material	seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyMaterial	This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well.Material	This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well.Material	 It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyMaterial	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyMaterial	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyMaterial	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyMaterial	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Material	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Material	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Material	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Material	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Material	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Material	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Material	 One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Material	cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Material	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.Material	 a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick. One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Material	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers Material Cleaning	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin.Material Cleaning	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Material Easy To Clean	Material is easy to cleanMaterial Easy To Clean	material is easy to take off and machine washMaterial Is Very Soft Good For Babies	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Material Scratches Easily Velcro	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers Material Used Velcro Shoe	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Materials Velcro Shoe	You do need a seat protector but youd need that with any car seatMaterials Velcro Shoe	 One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Max Burst Rate mode (photography)	3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustMeets Standards	 I understand each car seat has to meet standardsMegapixel	18MP StillsMegapixels	18MP Stills Memory	emory cardsMemory	I would recommend to get a high speed memory card. Memory	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPMemory	 high speed memory card. The pictures at full 18MP take a lot of memory.Memory	 would recommend to get a high speed memory card. The pictures at full 18MP take a lot of memoryMemory	 I would recommend to get a high speed memory card. The pictures at full 18MP take a lot of memory. Better get some means of decent storage space 750-1TB hardrive will doMemory	I purchased two Transcend 8GB Class 10 SDHC Card TS8GSDHC10 from Amazon and so far these have been amazing.  I have the camera saving in both RAW and JPEG until I can get familiar enough to switch completely to RAW.  Saving in this format is 20MB a picture and this card has no trouble keeping up.Memory	 certain memory cards that they certified to use with this camera.  Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or more.  I purchased two Transcend 8GB Class 10 SDHC Card TS8GSDHC10 from Amazon and so far these have been amazing.  I have the camera saving in both RAW and JPEG until I can get familiar enough to switch completely to RAW.  Saving in this format is 20MB a picture and this card has no trouble keeping upMemory	Nikon suggests certain memory cards that they certified to use with this camera.  Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or more.  I purchased two Transcend 8GB Class 10 SDHC Card TS8GSDHC10 from Amazon and so far these have been amazing.  I have the camera saving in both RAW and JPEG until I can get familiar enough to switch completely to RAW.  Saving in this format is 20MB a picture and this card has no trouble keeping up.Memory	Nikon suggests certain memory cards that they certified to use with this camera.  Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or more.  I purchased two Transcend 8GB Class 10 SDHC Card TS8GSDHC10 from Amazon and so far these have been amazing.  I have the camera saving in both RAW and JPEG until I can get familiar enough to switch completely to RAW.  Saving in this format is 20MB a picture and this card has no trouble keeping up.Memory And Format Secure Digital JPEG	  Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or more.  I purchased two Transcend 8GB Class 10 SDHC Card TS8GSDHC10 from Amazon and so far these have been amazing.  I have the camera saving in both RAW and JPEG until I can get familiar enough to switch completely to RAW.  Saving in this format is 20MB a picture and this card has no trouble keeping up.Memory Card	Saving in this format is 20MB a picture and this card has no trouble keeping up.Memory Card Cost	Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or moreMenu	The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode.Menu System (computing)	menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to useMenu System (computing)	The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use.Mesh Does Not Block Sun	cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directlyMi Focal length Shutter speed Canon (company) Camera (photography) Zoom lens Film	No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.Min Shutter Speed Focal length speed Canon (company) Camera (photography) Zoom lens Film	No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.Misleading	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Mobility	Its extremely mobileMobility	 Its extremely mobile.Mode	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forModel	Nikon D3100 16.2MP CMOS Digital SLR Camera with 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 AF-S DX VR Nikkor Zoom LensModel	Canon EOS Rebel T2i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-inch LCD and and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS LensModel	Canon EOS Rebel T3i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-Inch Clear View Vari-Angle LCD and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS LensModel	I did alot of research I was going to buy a less expensive model but after all the research of this cameras features I just couldnt so I worked some more overtime so I could afford this camera.Model	#N/AModel	#N/AModes	I changed the camera to P S A Modes	Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasModes	the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Money Britax Child safety seat	spending that much Money Britax Child safety seat	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much . More Room Than Carrier Car Seat	 has so much room verses his carrier car seatMovable LCD Screen Liquid crystal display Camera Computer monitor	articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.MP	18MP Stills MP	Canon EOS Rebel T2i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-inch LCD and and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS LensMP	Canon EOS Rebel T3i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-Inch Clear View Vari-Angle LCD and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS LensName Of Product	Graco Snugride Child Car SeatNature	 I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing.Neck Strap	good quality neck strapNeed A Lot Of Storage Space	The pictures at full 18MP take a lot of memory. Better get some means of decent storage space 750-1TB hardrive will doNeed To Buy Extra Parts UV filter	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Needed Accessories UV filter Filter (optics)	No wireless remoteNeeded Accessories UV filter Filter (optics)	you have to use P S A or M modes with the D3100Needed Accessories UV filter Filter (optics)	Better get some means of decent storage space 750-1TB hardriveNeeded Accessories UV filter Filter (optics)	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare batteryNeeds Uv Filter UV filter (optics)	Make sure to get UV filter New User Nikon D3100 Digital photography	For ease of use IQ form factor it wont weigh me down etc. I feel as if the D3100 was a great purchase. Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price Nice Material	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyNo Auto Focus Autofocus	No autofocusNo Auto Focus Autofocus	No autofocus when zooming while taking videoNo Auto-focus Autofocus Shutter (photography) button	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.No Auto-focus Autofocus Shutter (photography) button	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOther Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for No Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button	Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasNo Blockage Of View Headrest	head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.No Cable For HDMI Input	isappointed they offer HDMI input but dont provided the cableNo Instant Response	Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.No Manual Focus Nikon D5100 Autofocus Canon (company) focus	 video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am No Manual Focus Nikon D5100 Autofocus Canon (company) focus	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasNo Padding	NO padding.  -No Padding	there is absolutely NO paddingNo Padding In Seat	NO paddingNo Padding Where Baby Sits	NO paddingNo Padding- Comfort	where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.No Rethread Harness Is Awesome	The no rethread harness is awesome. The seat was comfortable looking and big enough rear facing all the way until two years old which is what the apaNo Travel Type Charger Battery charger	battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger wNo Wireless Remote	 No wireless remote.Noise Nikon D5100 Advanced Photo System DX format Image noise Sensor	So less noise on the Nikon.Noise Nikon D5100 Advanced Photo System DX format Image noise Sensor	The nikon D5100 has a better larger DX sensor vs canon APS sized sensor sensor. So less noise on the Nikon.Noise Nikon D5100 Advanced Photo System DX format Image noise Sensor	The nikon D5100 has a better larger DX sensor vs canon APS sized sensor sensor. So less noise on the Nikon.Noise Nikon D5100 Advanced Photo System DX format Image noise Sensor	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.Noise Of Lens Autofocus (optics)	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function Noisey Lens	lens makes noisesNoisy Pixel Digital camera Megapixel Autofocus Liquid crystal display Nikon Canon (company) Zoom lens Camera Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor Single-lens reflex D3100	1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Not Blocking The View Headrest	the head rest is removableNot Easy To Clean	he  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.  Thats not so bad since she did not puke on that part except that I was not aware that the headrest pad is attached to another pad that continues down the back behind the main pad   So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.  Im having quite an interesting time getting the nasty puke smell out Not Enough Padding In The Seat	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.  light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Not Needing To Change Lenses	dont want to change lensesNot Pro Level SLR APS-C	This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.Not Removable	Air  wings Not Simple Instructions	I chose it because it has the highest safety rating. The instructions were a little hard for me to follow remember now I am the grandma and over 50 so please keep it simple   I did end up having my son install it for me.  The chair is excellent quality.Not Sure About The Weight Limit Product description (business)	the product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seatNot Washable	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easilyNumber Of People Who Already Purchased Star (classification)	4.5 out of 5 starsNumber Of Positive Reviews/negative	259 ReviewsNumber Of Positive Reviews/negative	259 ReviewsOne Day Delivery	delivered one dayOperate	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Operation	Easy to operateOperation	Easy to operate.Operation	makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode.Operation	capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modesOperation	capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modesOperation	The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.Operation	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Operation	 Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Operations Video Quality Digital camera Autofocus Megapixel single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Pixel Lithium-ion battery Nikon F-number Zoom lens Camera Computer monitor Canon (company) Single-lens Manual focus D3100	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Overall this is an incredible camera. You will not regret it.In addition if youd love to take beautiful portraits for your beloved ones Id highly recommend you to also get a Nikon 35mm f/1.8G AF-S DX Lens for Nikon Digital SLR Cameras. It can be used to take short range portraits close-ups and indoors where the light is insufficient. I am not doing ads for Nikon or Amazon but you will really find the lens worth your investment.Opinion	I am not a professional so please dont take my opinion as someone acting as an authority on this subjectOptions	it my newborns head with the extra cushion that came with it.  Loved the colors as well. Works perfectly with the Snap N Go stroller piecOptions Available In Video Mode	I think that video modes in SLR cameras are fairly useless unless you are good with manual focussing and use the tripod. BTW the lens IS does work in video mode.Outdoor Shoot Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Canon (company) Lens (optics)	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.Output HDMI	Disappointed they offer HDMI input but dont provided the cable. Ove	i would recommend this camera over any one on the market and shoots great in low lighting settings. all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels natural. my favorite thing is the dedicated iso button making it easy to change quickly.Overall  Image stabilization	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Overall  Image stabilization	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iOverall Camera Firmware Point-and-shoot camera	  Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modesOverall Design Of Product Velcro Shoe	seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyOverall Performance  Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOverall Performance Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	I am very pleased that I purchased this car seat.Overall Performance Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	 Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Overall Performance Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Overall Performance Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.Overall Performance Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	If youd like to see the work I have done with my t2i and 50mm. . check me out brittneysheystudios.comOverall Performance Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.Overall Performance Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Overall Performance Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Overall Performance Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	  I love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy.  It looks like it should be but does not feel like it is.  It appears to be a very sturdy camera.Overall Performance Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOverall Performance Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	The bottom line is that images from the D3100 are indistinguishable from the more expensive models.  Ergonomically the D3100 is the easier to use compared to the D5100 that had to relinquish four buttons to make room for the swivel screen of the D5100.  Following is a link to my review of the D3100Overall Performance Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.Overall Performance Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	I used the same exact settings on both cameras large Jpeg P-mode Quick AF.  Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.Overall Performance Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	I upgraded from nikon D50 to this. So of course the pictures are much much better.In hindsight The nikon D5100 has a better larger DX sensor vs canon APS sized sensor sensor. So less noise on the Nikon.Also I think that video modes in SLR cameras are fairly useless unless you are good with manual focussing and use the tripod. BTW the lens IS does work in video mode.Overall Performance Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Overall Performance Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iOverall Performance Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iCons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingOverall Performance Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Overall Quality Of Seat Britax	I love this chair. from when I opened the box and easly instaled it in the car. it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it. Im just thinking how happy she will be when she gets turned around in a few months. This will even work for newborns. if I had known that I would have gotten this a long time ago.Overall Quality Of Seat Britax	Love this car seat   After extensive research and practically being settled on the Britax Advocate I feel like you get what you pay for I was told about this car seat and figured I would give it a try.  Worse case I would just use it in my husbands car and then order the Britax for my car.  No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.  I am going to order another one of these for my husbands car.  It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Overall Rating Liquid crystal display Macrophotography APS-C	I researched several SLRs before deciding on the Canon T3i.  Im happy with my choice so far having purchased the camera first of all to take high quality photos of fairly small works of sculpture art using the Canon 60mm macro lens.  For that use the camera and lens seem to work very well.  I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.  The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode. I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.  The view finder is very clear and has all basic settings info on the bottom border.  The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRs. Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger with a swing-out plug.  This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.Overall Review	VERY PLEASEDOverall Review	Great car seatOverall Review	I love this chair.Overall Review	Love this car seat Overall Review	For ease of use IQ form factor Overall Review	I absolutely love this car seat.Overall Review	I highly recommend this it item.Overall Review	 Its an excellent camera for ANY level of photographer - beginner or experienced proOverall Review	Overall we feel both our children are safe and would recommend this for long term use to friends and family members. We are contemplating buying two more so we have matching seats in both vehicles. They are worth every penny.Overall SEAT	Canon T3i ROCKS Overall SEAT	Built in image stabilizerOverall SEAT	Excellent camera though a bit expensiveOverall SEAT	I have no regrets with my 17-55mm purchaseOverall SEAT	hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhyOverall SEAT	I decided that this model offered me the best balance.Overall SEAT	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraOverall SEAT	The quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love itOverall SEAT	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Overall SEAT	No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO.Overall SEAT	As a first time Digital SLR buyer and user I love this camera and would highly recommend it to others.Overall SEAT	Big enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsOverall SEAT	This body is rock solid and worthy of purchase for ANY and ALL people entering or needing an advanced DSLR camera.Overall SEAT	t is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.  It is very user Friendly and Fun to use.Overall SEAT	Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes.Overall SEAT	 It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyOverall SEAT	Compared to my Kodak point and shoot the pictures are great.  I love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavyOverall SEAT	I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motorOverall SEAT	The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.Overall SEAT	3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingOverall SEAT	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known forOverall SEAT	Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menu. The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not.Overall SEAT	.  This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Overall SEAT	Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speedOverall SEAT	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge dealOverall SEAT	Cons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingOverall SEAT	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.Overall SEAT	I feel as if the D3100 was a great purchase. Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup.Overall SEAT	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOverall SEAT	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Overall SEAT	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Overall SEAT	ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.Overall SEAT	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iOverall SEAT	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Overall SEAT	ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Overall SEAT	ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Overall SEAT	Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Overall SEAT	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOverall SEAT	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Additionally with the side impact shaping its a very tight space to use the light blue head rests shown in the listing picture.  I havent tested it out yet but just from the appearance I can tell its not going to work.Ive purchased SnugRides in the past but this is the first one to have a serious lack of adequate padding.  Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEATOverall Size (Fit In Car)	The seat is giganticOverall Size (Fit In Car)	Awesome but a little bigOverall Size (Fit In Car)	Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do.Overall Usage	Very satisfied with this productOverall Usage	A good car seat that fits our needsOverall Usage	Excellent camera though a bit expensive - worth every penny.Overall Usage	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light Overall Usage	This is a great car seat. I did a lot of research on safety price etc. before buying this one.Overall Usage	i have probably saved  200-300  i would recommend this to anybody i know who is into DSLR. NIKON  way to go  Overall Usage	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.  I conducted countless hours of research on Canons Nikons and even Sonys.Overall Usage	Being new to the DSLR world though an avid photography enthusiast for many years theres not a lot for me to compare the D3100 to. However my own experience in the short week since I purchased the camera has been extremely gratifying.Overall Usage	i would recommend this camera over any one on the market and shoots great in low lighting settings. all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels natural. my favorite thing is the dedicated iso button making it easy to change quickly.Overall Usage	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Overall Im very satisfied with my purchase.Overall Usage	 If you are just starting out are bored with the out of date  point-n-shoot  want to upgrade your digital cams or you want to move from film to digital the T3i will not disappoint. Its an excellent camera for ANY level of photographer - beginner or experienced pro this camera really shines.Overall Usage	ros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.  light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.I think I would purchase this car seat again if they changed the visor and made the new base available.Overall Use And Picture/video Capability Shutter lag (photography)	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoOverall Use And Picture/video Capability Shutter lag (photography)	 stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens comboOverall Use And Picture/video Capability Shutter lag (photography)	430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelesslyOverall Use And Picture/video Capability Shutter lag (photography)	GRID functions. These work only in LIVE VIEW MODE as Ive found so farOverall Use And Picture/video Capability Shutter lag (photography)	230k dots screen its very bright and clear anyways compare to 900+ dotOverall Use And Picture/video Capability Shutter lag (photography)	Ive taken some stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens comboOverall Use And Picture/video Capability Shutter lag (photography)	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forOverall Use And Picture/video Capability Shutter lag (photography)	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurateOverall Use And Picture/video Capability Shutter lag (photography)	adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous modeOverall Value APS-C	This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.Overall Value APS-C	the other contenders were the T3i and T3 close  range and after careful though on ISO performance MPs price and features I decided that this model offered me the best balance.Overall Value APS-C	I was used to using point-and-shoots and small flip style video cameras to make my videos.  I looked into DSLRs and really wanted a canon.  YOU CANT GO WRONG WITH THIS CAMERA   It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.Padded Well	 padded wellPadding	NO paddingPadding	ely NO padding.  Padding	thats soft to the touch Padding	the seat seams padded wellPadding	there is absolutely NO paddingPadding	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingPadding	very nice fabric thats soft to the touchPadding	excellent padding and very nice soft fabricPadding	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Padding	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. IPadding	where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingPadding	but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingPadding	comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Padding	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingPadding	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingPadding	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Padding	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding. Padding	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still Padding	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Padding	where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats itPadding	 If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Padding	disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy. Padding	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -Padding	So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.Padding	Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.  Ive felt a lot of other car seats out there that feel like theyd be pretty hard to sit on and uncomfortable.Padding	 Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats iPadding	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.Padding	 Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding Padding	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.Padding	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Padding	#N/APadding Not Good	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Padding Protection	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco toParticulars	 i would recommend this camera over any one on the market and shoots great in low lighting settings.Performance - Speed Shutter lag (photography)	Slower than T2i Performance - Speed Shutter lag (photography)	Fast start up speedPerformance - Speed Shutter lag (photography)	Fast start up speedPerformance - Speed Shutter lag (photography)	he ISO firmware issuePerformance - Speed Shutter lag (photography)	the 18.1MP sensor.....WOWPerformance - Speed Shutter lag (photography)	The best part was the 1080P video. Performance - Speed Shutter lag (photography)	60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Performance - Speed Shutter lag (photography)	No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issuePerformance - Speed Shutter lag (photography)	decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keepPerformance - Speed Shutter lag (photography)	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance - Speed Shutter lag (photography)	hat images from the D3100 are indistinguishable from the more expensive modelsPerformance - Speed Shutter lag (photography)	Fast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPerformance - Speed Shutter lag (photography)	  The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous modePerformance - Speed Shutter lag (photography)	I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picturPerformance - Speed Shutter lag (photography)	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhyPerformance - Speed Shutter lag (photography)	Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.Performance - Speed Shutter lag (photography)	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Performance - Speed Shutter lag (photography)	ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Performance (speed)	T2i is FASTPerformance (speed)	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performancePerformance And Weight	#N/APerformance Shutter lag (photography)	18MP Stills Performance Shutter lag (photography)	18MP Stills  Performance Shutter lag (photography)	18.1MP sensorPerformance Shutter lag (photography)	60fps HD RecordingPerformance Shutter lag (photography)	3.7 max burst ratePerformance Shutter lag (photography)	grain in the picturePerformance Shutter lag (photography)	video.....Its 1080p Performance Shutter lag (photography)	delays are still therePerformance Shutter lag (photography)	Built-in flash is not so greatPerformance Shutter lag (photography)	Digital 3x zoom in video mode.Performance Shutter lag (photography)	I changed the camera to P S A Performance Shutter lag (photography)	This is not a professional level SLRPerformance Shutter lag (photography)	T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delaysPerformance Shutter lag (photography)	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoPerformance Shutter lag (photography)	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoPerformance Shutter lag (photography)	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance Shutter lag (photography)	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraPerformance Shutter lag (photography)	decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhyPerformance Shutter lag (photography)	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoPerformance Shutter lag (photography)	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoPerformance Shutter lag (photography)	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoPerformance Shutter lag (photography)	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoPerformance Shutter lag (photography)	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoPerformance Shutter lag (photography)	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoPerformance Shutter lag (photography)	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance Shutter lag (photography)	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance Shutter lag (photography)	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance Shutter lag (photography)	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance Shutter lag (photography)	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance Shutter lag (photography)	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance Shutter lag (photography)	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance Shutter lag (photography)	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance Shutter lag (photography)	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance Shutter lag (photography)	 Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance Shutter lag (photography)	 Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance Shutter lag (photography)	nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazingPerformance Shutter lag (photography)	live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow.Performance Shutter lag (photography)	White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.Performance Shutter lag (photography)	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingPerformance Shutter lag (photography)	This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C cameraPerformance Shutter lag (photography)	This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.Performance Shutter lag (photography)	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Performance Shutter lag (photography)	Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode so it acts like a point and shootPerformance Shutter lag (photography)	choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photosPerformance Shutter lag (photography)	In hindsight The nikon D5100 has a better larger DX sensor vs canon APS sized sensor sensor. So less noise on the Nikon.Performance Shutter lag (photography)	he T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous modePerformance Shutter lag (photography)	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Performance Shutter lag (photography)	 Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for tripsPerformance Shutter lag (photography)	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Performance Shutter lag (photography)	- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Performance Shutter lag (photography)	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.Performance Shutter lag (photography)	I used the same exact settings on both cameras large Jpeg P-mode Quick AF.  Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.Performance Shutter lag (photography)	Cons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingPerformance Shutter lag (photography)	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speedPerformance Shutter lag (photography)	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.Performance Shutter lag (photography)	The best part was the 1080P video. I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good and my wife who is very difficult to please liked it so much that she said that next time we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100Performance Shutter lag (photography)	Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasPerformance Shutter lag (photography)	I took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality. I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer. The quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it.Performance Shutter lag (photography)	I own a Nikon D7000 that I traded up to after owning a D3100 that I used to take over 8000 photos with.  Ive also extensively used a Nikon D5100 so I have a pretty good sense of the capability of each of Nikons three consumer cameras.  The bottom line is that images from the D3100 are indistinguishable from the more expensive models.Performance Shutter lag (photography)	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.  I conducted countless hours of research on Canons Nikons and even Sonys.  I was used to using point-and-shoots and small flip style video cameras to make my videos.  I looked into DSLRs and really wanted a canon.  YOU CANT GO WRONG WITH THIS CAMERA   It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.Performance Shutter lag (photography)	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iPerformance Shutter lag (photography)	there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photos.  You would expect Auto Modes to take easy great pictures in an entry level camera most people coming from point and shoot cameras.  If you want sharp pictures you have to use P S A or M modes with the D3100.  There you can control the ISO manually or use Auto ISO and choose a lower maximum ISO setting.  Apparently this is a discussed firmware issue but Nikon claimed they hadnt heard about it when I messaged themPerformance Shutter lag (photography)	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Performance Shutter lag (photography)	ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Performance Shutter lag (photography)	1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Performance Shutter lag (photography)	Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Performance Shutter lag (photography)	 This camera is very tight on power consumption and has extreme accuracy when you set it for pinpoint focusing as I do for model and portrait photography work. The macro features are also on par with its more advanced and WAY higher priced big brothers to this camera. Now the 18.1MP sensor.....WOW  The image sizes of the CMOS sensor allow me great latitude in adjusting and tweaking my RAW images anytime I wish to be creative. If you are just starting out are bored with the out of date  point-n-shoot  want to upgrade your digital cams or you want to move from film to digital the T3i will not disappoint. Its an excellent camera for ANY level of photographer - beginner or experienced pro this camera really shines. Oh and the video.....Its 1080p HD nothing more needs to be said.Performance Shutter lag (photography)	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOther Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Performance Shutter lag (photography)	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Performance Shutter lag (photography)	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Performance Shutter lag (photography)	#N/APerformance Speed Keep	decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhyPhoto Quality	#N/APhoto/video Quality American football High school in North America	I chose to purchase the camera body separately so that I could pair it with the EF-S 17-55mm f/2.8 IS USM lens.  Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera.  Ive taken some stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens combo.Photo/video Quality American football High school in North America	I took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality. I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer. The quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it. I also took a picture of a cherry tree that was about 30 yards away and then opened it up in Photoshop zoomed in and could see cherries that I could not even see with my eyes from the spot where I took the picture.Photo/video Quality American football High school in North America	I have had it for a few months now and I get alot of great compliments on my pictures they are professional looking my family and friends say and these are just on the automatic setting LOL wait until I read more and experiment. I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing. My friends son is Captain of his High School Football team and I have gotten some great shots for him to send to recruiters and colleges now lets talk Video I have taken alot for Football and I can not believe the quality and sound you would have thought I used a real video camera and not one from a camera it has surpassed what I have expected for a camera I am unbelievably happy with my purchase.Photos	Takes good quality of videos.Pic	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.Pic	#N/APicture Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	I changed the camera to P S A Picture Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoPicture Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	images from the D3100 are indistinguishable from the more expensive modelsPicture Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazingPicture Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modesPicture Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the settingPicture Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazingPicture Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixelsPicture Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	dont really mind the 230k dots screen its very bright and clear anyways compare to 900+ dotsPicture Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	ight out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forPicture Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	on dark venues the extra steps with the high ISO combined with large apertures on lenses provided the best combinationPicture Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picturePicture Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	better sensor  in the D5100 and D7000 at best has a bit more low light sensitivity but the overall images are not superiorPicture Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photosPicture Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forPicture Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitorPicture Is Slow  Autofocus Shutter (photography) button	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picturePicture Preview Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slowPicture Quality	18MP StillsPicture Quality	Picture qualityPicture Quality	the 18.1MP sensorPicture Quality	pictures looked dull Picture Quality	The pictures looked dullPicture Quality	pictures are much much betterPicture Quality	amazed by the Canon T3i quality.Picture Quality	  I changed the camera to P S A Picture Quality	Very fast auto focus on shootingPicture Quality	very high ISO levels in Auto ModePicture Quality	The grain was drowning out the detailsPicture Quality	pictures they are professional lookingPicture Quality	 point and shoot the pictures are great.Picture Quality	some great shots for him to send to recruiters and collegesPicture Quality	Compared to my Kodak point and shoot the pictures are greatPicture Quality	Compared to my Kodak point and shoot the pictures are great.Picture Quality	Compared to my Kodak point and shoot the pictures are great.Picture Quality	Compared to my Kodak point and shoot the pictures are great.Picture Quality	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPPicture Quality	ok some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very goodPicture Quality	went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screenPicture Quality	nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazingPicture Quality	Ive taken some stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens comboPicture Quality	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forPicture Quality	I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazingPicture Quality	I took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i qualityPicture Quality	I took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality.Picture Quality	I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing.Picture Quality	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixelsPicture Quality	I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Picture Quality	 there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the settingPicture Quality	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shadePicture Quality	my pictures they are professional looking my family and friends say and these are just on the automatic settingPicture Quality	right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forPicture Quality	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.Picture Quality	You would expect Auto Modes to take easy great pictures in an entry level camera most people coming from point and shoot cameras.Picture Quality	 Picture quality on this t2i is stunning so many features that it will take me months to figure out how to really get the most out of this camera.Picture Quality	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Picture Quality	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for. Picture Quality	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for. Picture Quality	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for. Picture Quality	Picture quality on this t2i is stunning so many features that it will take me months to figure out how to really get the most out of this camera. I have done months ofPicture Quality	For a begginer in the professional photography area I definetly see an ocean of difference between the t2i and point and shoot cameras. Picture quality on this t2i is stunningPicture Quality	In addition if youd love to take beautiful portraits for your beloved ones Id highly recommend you to also get a Nikon 35mm f/1.8G AF-S DX Lens for Nikon Digital SLR Cameras. Picture Quality	I asked a good 10 friends of mine which camera out there was my best bang for my buck They all said the t2i or t3i its a great starter camera and will profuce amazing pictures as well. Picture Quality	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture. Picture Quality	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focusPicture Quality	They love their camera so I figured this was a good choice.  Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode so it acts like a point and shoot.  Compared to my Kodak point and shoot the pictures are great.Picture Quality	 took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality. I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer. Picture Quality	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.Picture Quality	You would expect Auto Modes to take easy great pictures in an entry level camera most people coming from point and shoot cameras.  If you want sharp pictures you have to use P S A or M modes with the D3100.  There you can control the ISO manually or use Auto ISO and choose a lower maximum ISO setting.Picture Quality	Camera is just amazing. For a begginer in the professional photography area I definetly see an ocean of difference between the t2i and point and shoot cameras. Picture quality on this t2i is stunning so many features that it will take me months to figure out how to really get the most out of this cameraPicture Quality	I sent that camera back and purchased a new one from Amazon.  Same problem.  Well I have since done some research and participated in forums and found out there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photos.Picture Quality	he pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Picture Quality	t teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.  I have learned more using that mode in one week than from the weeks Ive spent reading books and websites.  For the money I saved on the camera I was able to purchase a telephoto lens to go with it.  Worth every penny.  I look forward to many years of great photos.Picture Quality	 Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flashPicture Quality	Picture quality on this t2i is stunning so many features that it will take me months to figure out how to really get the most out of this camera. I have done months of research before buying this T2i 18-135mm model and according to the experts there is really not much difference betrween t2i and the t3i. for 150 bucks less I do not need a rotating screen and other minute extended features.Picture Quality	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flashPicture Quality	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changPicture Quality	I took some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very good. Also i loved the guide mode when in doubt use guide. The best part was the 1080P video. I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good and my wife who is very difficult to please liked it so much that she said that next time we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100  I guess now i can finally retire my mini DV video camera.Picture Quality	I researched several SLRs before deciding on the Canon T3i.  Im happy with my choice so far having purchased the camera first of all to take high quality photos of fairly small works of sculpture art using the Canon 60mm macro lens.  For that use the camera and lens seem to work very well.  I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip. Picture Quality	Well I have since done some research and participated in forums and found out there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photos.  You would expect Auto Modes to take easy great pictures in an entry level camera most people coming from point and shoot cameras.  If you want sharp pictures you have to use P S A or M modes with the D3100.  There you can control the ISO manually or use Auto ISO and choose a lower maximum ISO setting.  Apparently this is a discussed firmware issue but Nikon claimed they hadnt heard about it when I messaged themPicture Quality	Since I have switched from Nikon to Canon a lot of my review is based on comparison to Nikon.ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Picture Quality	#N/APicture Quality	#N/APicture Quality  Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button	I took some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very good.Picture Quality  Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button	  Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modesPicture Quality  Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button	there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photos.Picture Quality  Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button	  If you want sharp pictures you have to use P S A or M modes with the D3100.  There you can control the ISO manually or use Auto ISO and choose a lower maximum ISO setting. Picture Quality  Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasPicture Quality  Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Picture Quality  Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button	I took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality. I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer. The quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it. I also took a picture of a cherry tree that was about 30 yards away and then opened it up in Photoshop zoomed in and could see cherries that I could not even see with my eyes from the spot where I took the picture. I can not wait to get Canon 15-85mm f/3.5-5.6 EF-S Zoom Lens and than I will be in some serious businessPicture Quality On Auto Mode	I took some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very good. Also i loved the guide mode when in doubt use guide. The best part was the 1080P videoPicture Quality On Auto Mode	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Picture Taking Shutter lag (photography)	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performancePictures	I get alot of great compliments on my pictures they are professional looking my family and friends say and these are just on the automatic settingPixel  Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens CMOS	Nikon D3100 16.2MP CMOS Digital SLR Camera with 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 AF-S DX VR Nikkor Zoom LensPixel Image stabilization	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iPixels Pixel	 It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Pixels Pixel	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Playback Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Please Their Customers	ho please their customers Point And Shoot	the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for. Poor Battery Life	Battery life is not too greatPoor Iso Choice In Auto Mode Nikon D3100	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Poor Quality Material Velcro Shoe	material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyPoorly Built Visor Allows Light In	the biggest is this darn sun visorPortability	it wont weigh me downPortability	Light weight great body design.Portability	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lensPortability	extremely mobile. I can just flip open my tripod lock and GOPortability	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for tripsPortability	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Portability	Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.Portability	not very heavy.  It looks like it should be but does not feel like it is.  It appears to be a very sturdy cameraPortability	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Portability	Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all dayPortrait	 I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing.Position	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards. They would have rested on the middle seats.Previous Research Reassuring	I did a lot of research going into the purchasePrice And Focus	#N/APrice Britax	Cons- PricePrice Britax	reasonable.Price Britax	Cons- PricePrice Britax	Cons- PricePrice Britax	Cons- PricePrice Britax	This productPrice Britax	189.99 169.9Price Britax	139.99 119.9Price Britax	799.99 749.0Price Britax	wallet friendlyPrice Britax	wallet friendlyPrice Britax	a bit expensivePrice Britax	wallet friendlyPrice Britax	a bit expensivePrice Britax	Although priceyPrice Britax	wallet friendlyPrice Britax	wallet friendlyPrice Britax	wallet friendlyPrice Britax	wallet friendlyPrice Britax	reasonable pricePrice Britax	reasonable pricePrice Britax	a bit expensive Price Britax	reasonable price Price Britax	reasonable price Price Britax	its wallet friendlyPrice Britax	its wallet friendlyPrice Britax	its wallet friendlyPrice Britax	its wallet friendlyPrice Britax	worthy of purchase Price Britax	its wallet friendlyPrice Britax	spending that much Price Britax	its wallet friendlyPrice Britax	its wallet friendlyPrice Britax	its wallet friendlyPrice Britax	hough a bit expensivePrice Britax	its wallet friendly aPrice Britax	isnt the cheapest seatPrice Britax	though a bit expensivePrice Britax	Great Quality for PricePrice Britax	Since initially postingPrice Britax	Great Quality for PricePrice Britax	s- its wallet friendly Price Britax	great deal for the pricePrice Britax	price is very reasonablePrice Britax	great deal for the pricePrice Britax	price is very reasonablePrice Britax	price is very reasonablePrice Britax	price is very reasonablePrice Britax	great deal for the pricePrice Britax	 price is very reasonablePrice Britax	price is very reasonable.Price Britax	price is very reasonable.Price Britax	great deal for the price.Price Britax	price is very reasonable.Price Britax	a great deal for the pricPrice Britax	price is very reasonable.Price Britax	price is very reasonable.Price Britax	price is very reasonable.Price Britax	price is very reasonable.Price Britax	Great value for the pricePrice Britax	price is very reasonable.Price Britax	price is very reasonable.Price Britax	price is very reasonable.Price Britax	price is very reasonable.Price Britax	price is very reasonable.Price Britax	price is very reasonable.Price Britax	 great deal for the price.Price Britax	a great deal for the pricePrice Britax	Bonus- its wallet friendlyPrice Britax	great deal for the price. Price Britax	 price is very reasonable.Price Britax	Bonus- its wallet friendlyPrice Britax	Bonus- its wallet friendlyPrice Britax	Bonus- its wallet friendlyPrice Britax	the price is very reasonablePrice Britax	  Bonus- its wallet friendlyPrice Britax	  Bonus- its wallet friendlyPrice Britax	the price is very reasonable.Price Britax	y nice car seat for the pricePrice Britax	the price is very reasonable.Price Britax	the price is very reasonable.Price Britax	the price is very reasonable.Price Britax	 the price is very reasonable.Price Britax	very nice car seat for the pricePrice Britax	This is a great option for thosePrice Britax	very nice car seat for the pricePrice Britax	the price in amazon is very cheapPrice Britax	the price in amazon is very cheapPrice Britax	the price in amazon is very cheapPrice Britax	wallet friendly and in this economyPrice Britax	For the money the D3100 cant be beatPrice Britax	  the price in amazon is very cheap.Price Britax	I feel like you get what you pay forPrice Britax	For the money the D3100 cant be beatPrice Britax	For the money the D3100 cant be beat.Price Britax	 best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.Price Britax	  For the money the D3100 cant be beat.Price Britax	digital photography at a reasonable pricePrice Britax	I could not see myself spending that much Price Britax	Overall a very nice car seat for the pricePrice Britax	I could not see myself spending that much Price Britax	I could not see myself spending that much Price Britax	Overall a very nice car seat for the price.Price Britax	you dont want to spend more money on lensesPrice Britax	Overall a very nice car seat for the price.Price Britax	I could not see myself spending that much .Price Britax	 I could not see myself spending that much Price Britax	 I could not see myself spending that much .Price Britax	I found this to be a great deal for the pricePrice Britax	I found this to be a great deal for the pricePrice Britax	I found this to be a great deal for the pricePrice Britax	 Overall a very nice car seat for the price. Price Britax	I found this to be a great deal for the price.Price Britax	situation where you dont want to change lensesPrice Britax	I found this to be a great deal for the price.Price Britax	I found this to be a great deal for the price.Price Britax	No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available.Price Britax	eat I found this to be a great deal for the price. Price Britax	great option for those of us who cant afford a BritaxPrice Britax	Graco SnugRide 30 Infant Car Seat Metropolis by GracoPrice Britax	Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.Price Britax	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraPrice Britax	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraPrice Britax	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraPrice Britax	Excellent camera though a bit expensive - worth every penny.Price Britax	PRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in pricePrice Britax	Decided to get t2i over t3i. . .and happy I did January 15 2012Price Britax	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.Price Britax	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.Price Britax	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.Price Britax	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.Price Britax	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.Price Britax	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.Price Britax	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.Price Britax	I got it for 699  including the VR 55-200mm + camera bag with DVDPrice Britax	 well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price Britax	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the moneyPrice Britax	I got it for 699  including the VR 55-200mm + camera bag with DVD .Price Britax	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the moneyPrice Britax	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.Price Britax	For the money the D3100 cant be beat.  What sold me was the guide mode.Price Britax	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonablePrice Britax	t is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price Britax	t is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price Britax	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price Britax	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price Britax	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price Britax	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price Britax	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price Britax	  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price Britax	  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price Britax	  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price Britax	  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price Britax	Safety 1st Complete Air 65 Protect Convertible Car Seat Silver Leaf by DorelPrice Britax	The First Years True Fit Recline Convertible Car Seat City Chic by The First YearsPrice Britax	The First Years True Fit Recline Convertible Car Seat City Chic by The First YearsPrice Britax	money I saved on the camera I was able to purchase a telephoto lens to go with it. Price Britax	 have probably saved  200-300  i would recommend this to anybody i know who is into DPrice Britax	Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses.Price Britax	And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lensPrice Britax	Save yourself the headache of working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body.Price Britax	  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Price Britax	ts wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price Britax	  I researched for several weeks looking seriously at the Canon T2i and the Nikon D3100.  Price Britax	its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price Britax	its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price Britax	friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much .Price Britax	 its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price Britax	 its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price Britax	 its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price Britax	Nikon D3100 16.2MP CMOS Digital SLR Camera with 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 AF-S DX VR Nikkor Zoom LensPrice Britax	 If you see the video when shopping for a car seat I found this to be a great deal for the pricePrice Britax	Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price Britax	Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price Britax	Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price Britax	Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price Britax	Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price Britax	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensPrice Britax	Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price Britax	Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price Britax	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much Price Britax	  Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price Britax	  Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price Britax	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much .Price Britax	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much .Price Britax	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much .Price Britax	 Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much .Price Britax	Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.Price Britax	Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEATPrice Britax	Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEATPrice Britax	Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable pricePrice Britax	Overall a very nice car seat for the price. This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.Price Britax	PRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iPrice Britax	PRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iPrice Britax	PRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iPrice Britax	 Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price Price Britax	PRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iPrice Britax	we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price Britax	Nikon suggests certain memory cards that they certified to use with this camera.  Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or morePrice Britax	isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.Price Britax	It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.Price Britax	It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.Price Britax	It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.Price Britax	  It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.Price Britax	 not much difference betrween t2i and the t3i. for 150 bucks less I do not need a rotating screen and other minute extended features.Price Britax	  It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price Britax	I chose the t2i over t3i because I didnt feel I would need to use the movable lcd screen and couldnt justify spending that much money on it.Price Britax	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usuallPrice Britax	Canon EOS Rebel T2i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-inch LCD and and EF-S ... by CanonPrice Britax	Canon EOS Rebel T3i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-Inch Clear View Vari-A... by CanonPrice Britax	This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price Britax	.  This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price Britax	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much . But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing.Price Britax	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 10Price Britax	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100Price Britax	f you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.Price Britax	Canon EOS Rebel T3i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-Inch Clear View Vari-Angle LCD and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS LensPrice Britax	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.Price Britax	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.Price Britax	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100. Price Britax	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100. Price Britax	 If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.Price Britax	This is my first DSLR and couldnt be more happier with this Purchase. Its been two weeks since i brought this camera from Bestbuy since it was out of stock at Amazon and also with 10Price Britax	Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup.Price Britax	is is a great car seat. I did a lot of research on safety price etc. before buying this one.  I actually bought two one for my car and one for my husbands car.  We were very pleased with itPrice Britax	 Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup.Price Britax	Ive purchased SnugRides in the past but this is the first one to have a serious lack of adequate padding.  Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEATPrice Britax	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keepPrice Britax	I have done months of research before buying this T2i 18-135mm model and according to the experts there is really not much difference betrween t2i and the t3i. for 150 bucks less I do not need a rotating screen and other minute extended features.Price Britax	If your looking for a great Camera look no further you have found it  If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100Price Britax	If your looking for a great Camera look no further you have found it  If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.Price Britax	Im glad to have this camera it has everything comparable to canon t2  1080p movie 14.2 mp 502g light weight. 3 inch screen . i dont really mind the 230k dots screen its very bright and clear anyways compare to 900+ dots  .  the price in amazon is very cheap.Price Britax	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much . But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing. My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Price Britax	For ease of use IQ form factor it wont weigh me down etc. I feel as if the D3100 was a great purchase. Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup.Price Britax	Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasPrice Britax	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well. Overall a very nice car seat for the price.Price Britax	I upgraded from a Canon 20D to this specific model after several hours of navigating product reviews and I dont regret it the other contenders were the T3i and T3 close  range and after careful though on ISO performance MPs price and features I decided that this model offered me the best balance. Price Britax	Im glad to have this camera it has everything comparable to canon t2  1080p movie 14.2 mp 502g light weight. 3 inch screen . i dont really mind the 230k dots screen its very bright and clear anyways compare to 900+ dots  .  the price in amazon is very cheap. I got it for 699  including the VR 55-200mm + camera bag with DVD .Price Britax	No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.  I am going to order another one of these for my husbands car.  It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price Britax	  the price in amazon is very cheap. I got it for 699  including the VR 55-200mm + camera bag with DVD .  i also used the transcend 32 gb class 10 from amazon for 50 work without any problems . also bought battery at amazon for 27  EN EL 14   way way  amazing purchase. i have probably saved  200-300  i would recommend this to anybody i know who is into DSLR.Price Britax	looking seriously at the Canon T2i and the Nikon D3100.  For the money the D3100 cant be beat.  What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.  I have learned more using that mode in one week than from the weeks Ive spent reading books and websites.  For the money I saved on the camera I was able to purchase a telephoto lens to go with it.Price Britax	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iPrice Britax	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasPrice Britax	A few things I dont like but not many.  The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.  Also my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly.  It isnt hard to get back on and it is nice that it pops off so it can go on either side but it is annoying when he gets it off and starts throwing it around.  Of course it would be that or his toys or whatever else he could find if he couldnt get it off.  You do need a seat protector but youd need that with any car seat.  I also dont like some of the colors but that is personal preference.Overall were really happy with this car seat.  It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.Price Britax	We got this car seat after being very happy with my sons First Years Via car seat.  He was too big already for the extra padding but we had him back facing in this seat for about six months and now have him forward facing.  Hes liked both ways.  I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars.  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.  Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.  I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.  Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.  Ive felt a lot of other car seats out there that feel like theyd be pretty hard to sit on and uncomfortable.A few things I dont like but not many.  The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.  Also my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly.  It isnt hard to get back on and it is nice that it pops off so it can go on either side but it is annoying when he gets it off and starts throwing it around.  Of course it would be that or his toys or whatever else he could find if he couldnt get it off.  You do need a seat protector but youd need that with any car seat.  I also dont like some of the colors but that is personal preference.Overall were really happy with this car seat.  It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.Price Britax	#N/APrice Britax	#N/APrice Britax	#N/APrice Britax	#NAME?Price Britax	#N/APrice Britax	#N/APrice Britax	#N/APrice Britax	#N/APrice Britax	#N/APrice Britax	#N/APrice Comparison	189.99 169.Price Comparison	189.99 169.Price For Quality	wallet friendlyPrice For Quality	the price is very reasonablePrice For Quality	I found this to be a great deal for the price.Price For Quality	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.Price Of Lens Color balance Live preview Autofocus Focal length Canon (company) Shutter speed Viewfinder (photography) Camera Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor (optics) Film	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Price Saving Kit 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company)	And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.Price Value	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money. Price/availability Nikon AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	I got it for 699  including the VR 55-200mm + camera bag with DVD Pricey And Flash Is Not Good	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so greatPricey But Great Camera Walkaround	Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body cameraPricing	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Pro	 It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. Pro	 very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well. Overall a very nice car seat for the price. This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.Pro & Con Autofocus Digital single-lens reflex camera Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Shutter 135 film Canon (company) lag Point-and-shoot UV filter	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOther Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Pro & Con Autofocus Digital single-lens reflex camera Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Shutter 135 film Canon (company) lag Point-and-shoot UV filter	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Pro & Con Autofocus Digital single-lens reflex camera Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Shutter 135 film Canon (company) lag Point-and-shoot UV filter	ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Pro And Cons Minivan Odyssey	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Processor Image stabilization	Canon EOS Rebel T3i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-Inch Clear View Vari-Angle LCD and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS LensProcessor Image stabilization	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iProduct Description description (business)	the product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat.  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Product Info description (business)	It looks just as it is picturedProduct Info description (business)	product features and product description contradict each other Professionalism APS-C	This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.Pros And Cons	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.  light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Pros Lightweight	Light weightPros Lightweight	Easy to operatePros Lightweight	T2i is the Best Entry Level DSLRPros Lightweight	Excellent Product came within 2 business days even though I did standard shipping. Fit my newborns head with the extra cushion that came with it.  Loved the colors as well. Works perfectly with the Snap N GPros Lightweight	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iCons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingPros Lightweight	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasPros Lightweight	Since I have switched from Nikon to Canon a lot of my review is based on comparison to Nikon.ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Protection	protects my little girl and it provides comfert for herPurchase	I am very happy about the decision.Purchase	couldnt be more happier with this PurchasePurchase	 I purchased the camera has been extremely gratifyingPurchase	 was able to purchase a telephoto lens to go with it.  Worth every penny.  I look forward to many years of great photos.Purchasing In Future Minivan Odyssey	I have a four year old and a two year old and they both love their true fit seats. Mommy loves them too. They are easy to install especially as compared to the graco one we bought first. The no rethread harness is awesome. The seat was comfortable looking and big enough rear facing all the way until two years old which is what the apa recommends.ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Overall we feel both our children are safe and would recommend this for long term use to friends and family members. We are contemplating buying two more so we have matching seats in both vehicles. They are worth every penny.Qua	enter. It fit fine and snug as can be. What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not blQuality	very durableQuality	The quality is amazingQuality	The quality is amazingQuality	Excellent Beginners DSLRQuality	Excellent Beginners DSLRQuality	large Jpeg P-mode Quick AFQuality	 chair is excellent qualityQuality	T3i greater then nikon 5100Quality	akes good quality of videosQuality	Takes good quality of videos.Quality	 Low resolution of LCD screenQuality	e chair is excellent quality.Quality	The chair is excellent qualityQuality	I changed the camera to P S A Quality	great in low lighting settings.Quality	The chair is excellent quality.Quality	 is nice and heavy very durableQuality	 grain/dull/no detailed photos.Quality	The chair is excellent quality.Quality	Some pictures came out blue-ish.Quality	T2i is the Best Entry Level DSLRQuality	the biggest is this darn sun visorQuality	17in. wide infant car seat will do.Quality	it does a good job of taking picturesQuality	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingQuality	It is a well made and designed car seatQuality	It is a well made and designed car seatQuality	very nice fabric thats soft to the touchQuality	really well constructed and pretty comfyQuality	excellent padding and very nice soft fabricQuality	we dont need to compromise on quality or styleQuality	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come offQuality	we dont need to compromise on quality or style.Quality	high quality photos of fairly small works of sculpture artQuality	Excellent camera though a bit expensive - worth every penny.Quality	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPQuality	material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyQuality	. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. Quality	well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Quality	3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shootingQuality	The quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it.Quality	 material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Quality	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Quality	  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Quality	nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazingQuality	seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed itQuality	works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or styleQuality	not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull Quality	 When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyesQuality	I upgraded from nikon D50 to this. So of course the pictures are much much betterQuality	the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forQuality	I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing.Quality	I took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality. Quality	 noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping foQuality	he bottom line is that images from the D3100 are indistinguishable from the more expensive models. Quality	 the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.Quality	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Quality	product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seatQuality	enter. It fit fine and snug as can be. What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not blQuality	It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.Quality	 This body is rock solid and worthy of purchase for ANY and ALL people entering or needing an advanced DSLR camera. Quality	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.Quality	we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Quality	  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.Quality	  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.Quality	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. Quality	The image sizes of the CMOS sensor allow me great latitude in adjusting and tweaking my RAW images anytime I wish to be creative.Quality	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Quality	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyQuality	ne disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy. Quality	- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Quality	 Picture quality on this t2i is stunning so many features that it will take me months to figure out how to really get the most out of this camera.Quality	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingQuality	 Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all dayQuality	Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day.Quality	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Quality	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Quality	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Quality	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Quality	I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surferQuality	If you want sharp pictures you have to use P S A or M modes with the D3100.  There you can control the ISO manually or use Auto ISO and choose a lower maximum ISO setting.Quality	while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.Quality	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. I highly recommend this it item.Quality	snap off the cup holder pretty quickly.  It isnt hard to get back on and it is nice that it pops off so it can go on either side but it is annoying when he gets it off and starts throwing it around. Quality	 I also took a picture of a cherry tree that was about 30 yards away and then opened it up in Photoshop zoomed in and could see cherries that I could not even see with my eyes from the spot where I took the pictureQuality	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keepQuality	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick. One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Quality	Excellent Product came within 2 business days even though I did standard shipping. Fit my newborns head with the extra cushion that came with it.  Loved the colors as well. Works perfectly with the Snap N Go stroller piece.Quality	 Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.Quality	I had been taking pictures with my roommates Canon EOS t2i for months and then I decided to get my own entry-level DSLR. Ive compared Canon EOS t2i with Nikon D3100 and finally I picked D3100. I am very happy about the decision.Quality	  Im happy with my choice so far having purchased the camera first of all to take high quality photos of fairly small works of sculpture art using the Canon 60mm macro lens.  For that use the camera and lens seem to work very well.Quality	. It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels.Quality	Air 65 car seat that we have purchased so we could have one in each car.  I have a baby on the way and know the seat will be durable enough to withstand constant use through 2 children   Of course safety is our main concern but this seat is also stylish Quality	While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Quality	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Quality	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much . But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing. My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Quality	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Quality	3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extraQuality	I took some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very good. Also i loved the guide mode when in doubt use guide. The best part was the 1080P video. I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good and my wife who is very difficult to please liked it so much that she said that next time we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100  I guess now i can finally retire my mini DV video camera.Quality	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iQuality	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Quality	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Quality	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Overall we feel both our children are safe and would recommend this for long term use to friends and family members. We are contemplating buying two more so we have matching seats in both vehicles. They are worth every penny.Quality	 took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality. I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer. The quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it. I also took a picture of a cherry tree that was about 30 yards away and then opened it up in Photoshop zoomed in and could see cherries that I could not even see with my eyes from the spot where I took the picture. I can not wait to get Canon 15-85mm f/3.5-5.6 EF-S Zoom Lens and than I will be in some serious business.Quality	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iCons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingQuality	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Additionally with the side impact shaping its a very tight space to use the light blue head rests shown in the listing picture.  I havent tested it out yet but just from the appearance I can tell its not going to work.Ive purchased SnugRides in the past but this is the first one to have a serious lack of adequate padding.  Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEATQuality	#N/AQuality	#N/AQuality	#N/AQuality	#N/AQuality And Price	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Quality Is Amazing	he quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it. I also took a picture of a cherry tree that was about 30 yards away aQuality Of Photos Firmware	Apparently this is a discussed firmware issue but Nikon claimed they hadnt heard about it when I messaged them...Quality Of PIcture	professional looking my family and friendsQuality Of Picture And Weight	I love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy.  It looks like it should be but does not feel like it is.  It appears to be a very sturdy camera.Quality Of Pictures	 I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Quality Of Pictures	Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modesQuality Of Pictures	  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Quality Of Videos	Takes good quality of videos.Quality- Difficult To Clean	but I do NOT love cleaning itQuick And Easy Installation	VERY easy to install base in carRam	Ships fromRam	Ships fromRam	Ships fromRam	Ships fromRankings	I purchased this seat because it was rated Rating	259 ReviewsRating	 highest safety rating.Rating	I purchased this seat because it was rated Rating	I purchased this seat because it was rated Rating	Canon EOS Rebel T3i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-Inch Clear View Vari-Angle LCD and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS LensRatings	Customer ReviewsRatings	Graco Snugride Child Car SeatRatings	I purchased this seat because it was rated Ratings	I purchased this seat because it was rated Ratings	The First Years True Fit Recline Convertible Car SeatRatings	 I would recommend this product to anyone I knew who was in need of a good car seat.Ratings	Amazon.com Customer Reviews Safety 1st Complete Air 65 Protect Convertible Car Seat Silver LeafRaw Pictures 1080p	s.  Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera.  Ive taken some stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens comboRear Facing Fit Pool noodle Noodle	If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction boRear Facing Keep	issues in rear facing positioRear Facing Keep	It is a big seat especially rear facing.Rear Facing Keep	  It is a big seat especially rear facing. Rear Facing Keep	  I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limitRear Facing Keep	The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my carRear Facing Keep	If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneathRear Facing Keep	 I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Rear Facing Keep	It is a big seat especially rear facing.  We have a Sienna mini van and we had them both on the bench seat.  Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards.Rear-facing	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing positionRear-facing	My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing.Rear-facing	I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit.Rear-facing	The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car.Rear-facing	seat was comfortable looking and big enough rear facing all the way until two years oldRear-facing	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards.Rear-facing	If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Rear-facing	 If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Rear-facing	I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Reasonable Price	price is very reasonableRecieved For Shower Baby Infant car seat	We asked for this as a Baby Shower gift back in 2010 when my daughter was born. Started to use it in Feb of this year my daughter is on the small side so she just outgrew the infant seat and LOVE IT  Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.We ordered another one for this review for my MILs car since she cares for my daughter 2 days a week. Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do. Again my little girl likes being in the seat and able to look out of the windows at the world around her. I would recommend this product to anyone I knew who was in need of a good car seat.Reclination	recline it at 3 different levelsRecline	djustable you can reclineRecline	you can recline it at 3 different levelReclines This Life	The First Years True Fit Recline Convertible Car SeatRecommendation Firmware Point-and-shoot camera	Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes.Recommendations	#NAME?Remote Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display	No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. Removable Fabric	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Removable Head Rest Headrest	head rest is removableRemovable Head Rest Headrest	head rest is removableRemovable Head Rest Headrest	head rest is removableRemovable Head Rest Headrest	head rest is removableRemovable Head Rest Headrest	the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still smallRemovable Head Rest Headrest	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Removable Head Rest Headrest	  My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.Removable Parts Supermini Car seat Hyundai Elantra	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.  Also my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly.  It isnt hard to get back on and it is nice that it pops off so it can go on either side but it is annoying when he gets it off and starts throwing it around.  Of course it would be that or his toys or whatever else he could find if he couldnt get it off.  You do need a seat protector but youd need that with any car seat.  I also dont like some of the colors but that is personal preference.Repeat Hyundai Sonata	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for. Repeat Hyundai Sonata	Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all carsReplacement At No Charge Velcro	seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material Resolution CMOS	ow resolution of LCD screeResolution CMOS	Low resolution of LCD screenResolution CMOS	The best part was the 1080P video.Resolution CMOS	 It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixelsResolution CMOS	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPResolution CMOS	the 18.1MP sensor.....WOW  The image sizes of the CMOS sensor allow me great latitude in adjusting and tweaking my RAW images anytime I wish to be creative.Resolution CMOS	I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer.Resolution CMOS	 Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.Response	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Responsiveness British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Responsiveness British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhyResponsiveness British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital	Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.Reviews	highest safety ratingRight Hand Grip	 very adequate right hand grip Right-hand Grip	The T2i is FAST.Room	ittle roomierRoom	so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inRoom	I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seatRoom	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Roominess	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Roomy	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Rugged Enough	 rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day.  I haSa	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.Safe And Adjustable	side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. I highly recommend this it itemSafe And Comfortable	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.  Some seats seemed too bulky and I know my daughter would be a sweaty mess in those styles.  This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped in.Safe And Secure	 My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Safest Baby Seat On Market	it has the highest safety rating.Safety	 NO padding. Safety	side crash testedSafety	side crash testedSafety	side crash testedSafety	side crash tested Safety	side crash tested Safety	doesnt move around.Safety	The seat is giganticSafety	Im sure this is safeSafety	highest safety ratingSafety	highest safety ratingSafety	highest safety ratingSafety	highest safety ratingSafety	highest safety ratingSafety	highest safety ratingSafety	he is safe and secureSafety	highest safety ratingSafety	highest safety ratingSafety	highest safety rating.Safety	highest safety rating.Safety	absolutely NO padding.Safety	highest safety rating.Safety	appears to be very safeSafety	t is side crash tested Safety	appears to be very safeSafety	appears to be very safeSafety	 highest safety rating.Safety	appears to be very safeSafety	appears to be very safeSafety	It is side crash tested Safety	 highest safety rating. Safety	It is side crash tested Safety	 It is side crash testedSafety	It is side crash tested Safety	the highest safety ratingSafety	confident that he is safeSafety	it protects my little girlSafety	ice and heavy very durableSafety	Im sure this is safe enoughSafety	it protects my little girl Safety	holds the girls very secureSafety	Im sure this is safe enoughSafety	as the highest safety ratingSafety	easly instaled it in the car.Safety	It holds the girls very secureSafety	 Im confident that he is safe Safety	it has the highest safety ratingSafety	it has the highest safety ratingSafety	safety was my number one prioritySafety	it has the highest safety rating.Safety	we feel both our children are safeSafety	 because they did not fit backwardSafety	 we feel both our children are safeSafety	Im confident that he is safe and secureSafety	Im confident that he is safe and secure.Safety	Im confident that he is safe and secure.Safety	Im confident that he is safe and secure. Safety	Overall we feel both our children are safeSafety	buckle system is heavy duty and easy to useSafety	I purchased this seat because it was rated Safety	side crash tested and the base is adjustableSafety	comfortable and Im confident that he is safeSafety	 very comfortable and appears to be very safeSafety	 chose it because it has the highest safety ratingSafety	It is side crash tested and the base is adjustableSafety	It holds the girls very secure and they love them.Safety	 its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.Safety	I chose it because it has the highest safety ratingSafety	 chose it because it has the highest safety rating.Safety	I chose it because it has the highest safety ratingSafety	 It is side crash tested and the base is adjustableSafety	I chose it because it has the highest safety ratingSafety	I chose it because it has the highest safety ratingSafety	I chose it because it has the highest safety rating.Safety	I chose it because it has the highest safety rating.Safety	  I chose it because it has the highest safety ratingSafety	  I chose it because it has the highest safety rating.Safety	protects my little girl and it provides comfert for herSafety	the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well.Safety	I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenientSafety	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her.Safety	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her.Safety	car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety	 but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient.Safety	I did a lot of research on safety price etc. before buying this onSafety	Also my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quicklySafety	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secureSafety	Other than the issues in rear facing position this is a terrific seat.Safety	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secureSafety	safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seatSafety	  Also my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quicklSafety	 other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facingSafety	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Safety	Rear facing is the safest way for small children to travel when in a carSafety	 My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Safety	the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small. Safety	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.Safety	our snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is levelSafety	It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels.Safety	It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels.Safety	 Im sure this is safe enough but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient.Safety	he biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh.Safety	but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulkSafety	but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulkSafety	but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Safety	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Safety	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Safety	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Safety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move aroundSafety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move aroundSafety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move aroundSafety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move aroundSafety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move aroundSafety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety	product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat.Safety	This is the second Safety 1st complete Air 65 car seat that we have purchased so we could have one in each car.Safety	  Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety	  Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around. Safety	This is the second Safety 1st complete Air 65 car seat that we have purchased so we could have one in each car. Safety	Overall we feel both our children are safe and would recommend this for long term use to friends and family membersSafety	hen you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is levelSafety	when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level.Safety	it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulkSafety	it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulkSafety	it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Safety	it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Safety	it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Safety	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulkSafety	  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.Safety	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Safety	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Safety	It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. I highly recommend this it item.Safety	 Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. Safety	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as wellSafety	However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.Safety	 One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Safety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.  I also find it really easy to installSafety	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Safety	I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Safety	 I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Safety	 this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyesSafety	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves itSafety	 it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it. Safety	I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit.  It is so high in fact that my 3 1/2 year old would still be able to be rear facing in this seatSafety	I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit.  It is so high in fact that my 3 1/2 year old would still be able to be rear facing in this seatSafety	Normally he literally fights and struggles when it is time to get into the the car but not this time. I love this chair  My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Safety	Overall we feel both our children are safe and would recommend this for long term use to friends and family members. We are contemplating buying two more so we have matching seats in both vehicles. They are worth every pennySafety	Currently the product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat.  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Safety	seat. I did a lot of research on safety price etc. before buying this one.  I actually bought two one for my car and one for my husbands car.  We were very pleased with it.  Both were delivered super fast and in perfect condition.  InsSafety	safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Safety	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Safety	 Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Safety	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.  I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.  Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.Safety	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it. Im just thinking how happy she will be when she gets turned around in a few months. This will even work for newborns. if I had known that I would have gotten this a long time ago.Safety	We are using this as a rear facing seat in our Chevy Malibu and it fits just fine. Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Safety	We are using this as a rear facing seat in our Chevy Malibu and it fits just fine. Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Safety	.  I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars.  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.  Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.  Some seats seemed too bulky and I know my daughter would be a sweaty mess in those styles.  This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped in.  The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well.  This is the second Safety 1st complete Air 65 car seat that we have purchased so we could have one in each car.  I have a baby on the way and know the seat will be durable enough to withstand constant use through 2 children   Of course safety is our main concern but this seat is also stylish Safety	The car seat was delivered one day after I ordered it online. Which was outstanding. I took it out of the box and my 2 year old became giddy with excitement. Normally he literally fights and struggles when it is time to get into the the car but not this time. I love this chair  My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure. I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra. As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once.Safety FEatures	 it has the highest safety rating.Safety FEatures	 its very comfortable and appears to be very safeSafety FEatures	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move aroundSafety FEatures	#N/ASafety First Amazon.com	Amazon.com Customer Reviews Safety 1st Complete Air 65 Protect Convertible Car Seat Silver LeafSafety Rating	highest safety ratingSafety Rating	it has the highest safety rating.Safety Rating	I chose it because it has the highest safety rating.Safety Tested	It is side crash testedSafety With Rear Seat Faceing	Other than the issues in rear facing position this is a terrific seat.Saftey	  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Saftey	my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly.  It isnt hard to get back on and it is nice that it pops off so it can go on either side but it is annoying when he gets it off and starts throwing it around.Same As Above	video manual focus on the Canon and alsSame As Above	 noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Same As Earlier Version	has a good feel to it and overall has the same features as the T2i.Satisfaction	great purchase for our family.Satisfaction	Seriously disappointed with this carseat Satisfaction	he correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Save About $100 Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics)	 The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spenSaving Formats JPEG	I have the camera saving in both RAW and JPEG until I can get familiar enough to switch completely to RAWSaving money Sony Radio Academy Awards	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.  I conducted countless hours of research on Canons Nikons and even Sonys.  Scratchy Velcro Shoe	seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyScreeen Nikon D7000 D5100 Image sensor Canon EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera lens (company) Autofocus	I looked at many items before pulling the trigger on the Canon T3i. I went to Best buy and tested out the Canon T2i the Nikon D5100 the Canon 60D and the Nikon D7000. After testing out all the products I came to the decision that the only cameras I liked that felt good in my hand were the Canon T2i Nikon D5100 and the Can T3i. I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal. The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am sure the Nikon D5100 is a spectacular camera and it sports a larder image sensor than the Canon. I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.Screen 1080p Inch	articulating LCD screen.Screen 1080p Inch	 articulating LCD screen.Screen 1080p Inch	Low resolution of LCD screen.Screen 1080p Inch	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraScreen 1080p Inch	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraScreen 1080p Inch	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.Screen 1080p Inch	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.Screen 1080p Inch	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.Screen 1080p Inch	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels.Screen 1080p Inch	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Screen 1080p Inch	The articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2iScreen 1080p Inch	I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.Screen 1080p Inch	Im glad to have this camera it has everything comparable to canon t2  1080p movie 14.2 mp 502g light weight. 3 inch screen . i dont really mind the 230k dots screen its very bright and clear anyways compare to 900+ dots  . Screen 1080p Inch	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.Screen 1080p Inch	 Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.Screen Picture Quality Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Canon (company) Display	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixelSculptural Art	camera first of all to take high quality photos of fairly small works of sculpture artSd Card Price Secure Digital JPEG	Nikon suggests certain memory cards that they certified to use with this camera.  Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or more.  I purchased two Transcend 8GB Class 10 SDHC Card TS8GSDHC10 from Amazon and so far these have been amazing.  I have the camera saving in both RAW and JPEG until I can get familiar enough to switch completely to RAW.  Saving in this format is 20MB a picture and this card has no trouble keeping up.Seat	Now for the cons.  The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car.Seat Cover Material Velcro Shoe	So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.Seat Cover Material Velcro Shoe	While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh.Seat Cover Material Velcro Shoe	seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchySeat Cover Material Velcro Shoe	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars. Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. Seat Cover Material Velcro Shoe	  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  Seat Cover Material Velcro Shoe	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchySeat Cover Material Velcro Shoe	 One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy. Seat Cover Material Velcro Shoe	difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick. One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it Seat Cover Quality	middle section is made of meshSeat Cover Quality	eat cover is made of a materialSeat Cover Quality	soft and fuzzy very comfortableSeat Cover Velcro Shoe	seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchySeat Cover Velcro Shoe	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchySeat Material Velcro Shoe	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Seat Material Velcro Shoe	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin.Seat Material Velcro Shoe	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Seat Material Velcro Shoe	but this is the first one to have a serious lack of adequate padding.Seat Material Velcro Shoe	This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well.Seat Material Velcro Shoe	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Seat Material Velcro Shoe	So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.  Im having quite an interesting time getting the nasty puke smell out of it.Seat Padding	the seat seams padded wellSeat Padding	where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingSeat Padding	where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingSeat Padding	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Seat Padding	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Seat Protector	You do need a seat protectorSeat Quaity	I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.Seat Quaity	If you see the video when shopping for a car seat I found this to be a great deal for the price. I understand each car seat has to meet standards but I have been please with this one and my husband just purchased an extra one to have in his 06Nissan Frontier.Seat Quaity	 have a four year old and a two year old and they both love their true fit seats. Mommy loves them too. They are easy to install especially as compared to the graco one we bought first. The no rethread harness is awesome. The seat was comfortable looking and big enough rear facing all the way until two years old which is what the apa recommends.Seat Quaity	We are using this as a rear facing seat in our Chevy Malibu and it fits just fine. Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Im glad we had the Chicco Keyfit 30 when our guy was an infant. Im sure this is safe enough but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient. Even though my son isnt quiet 1 yet he was ready for a more toddler friendly seat. This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him. I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.Seat Seam Padded Well And Comfortable	  Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.  Ive felt a lot of other car seats out there that feel like theyd be pretty hard to sit on and uncomfoSeat Size	seat is big Seat Size	It is a big seat especially rear facingSeat Size	 Im sure this is safe enough but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient. Even though my son isnt quiet 1 yet he was ready for a more toddler friendly seat.Seat Size	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge carSeat Size	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.Seat Size	The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra. As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over onceSeating	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inSecurity	t holds the girls very secure and they love theSensor Nikon D5100 Advanced Photo System DX format Image noise	The nikon D5100 has a better larger DX sensor vs canon APS sized sensor sensor.Sensor Nikon D5100 Advanced Photo System DX format Image noise	The nikon D5100 has a better larger DX sensor vs canon APS sized sensor sensor. So less noise on the Nikon.Sensors CMOS	. The macro features are also on par with its more advanced and WAY higher priced big brothers to this camera. Now the 18.1MP sensor.....WOW  The image sizes of the CMOS sensor allow me great latitude in adjusting and tweaking my RAW images anytime I wish to be creative.Serious Photography	There are very many accessories and lenses for this camera.  If you want to really get serious about photography or video making then get THIS camera.Service	customer serviceService	Canon service is apparently better than nikonService	Canon service is apparently better than nikonService	Canon service is apparently better than nikon.Service	Canon service is apparently better than nikon.Service	Canon service is apparently better than nikon.Service	Canon service is apparently better than nikon.Service	Canon service is apparently better than nikon.Service	Canon service is apparently better than nikon. Service	sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised.Service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Service	After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base.Service	  We are able to use our Britax Marathon a Graco booster and this infant car seat all in one row.  This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  IService	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers Settings Nikon D3100 Film speed	No audio recording level adjustSettings Nikon D3100 Film speed	I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forSettings Nikon D3100 Film speed	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Settings Nikon D3100 Film speed	he reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. Settings Nikon D3100 Film speed	Same problem.  Well I have since done some research and participated in forums and found out there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.Seurity	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secureShoot Modes	just not in the auto point and shoot modes.Shoot Modes	Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes.Shooting Speed Keep	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhyShooting Speed Keep	Since I have switched from Nikon to Canon a lot of my review is based on comparison to Nikon.ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Shoots Great In Low Light	Im a film student and was trying to decide between a t3i and Nikon 5100. everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera. the 600d has better continuous recording you have better manual capabilities. after a lot research i decided to go with the canon i went with a t3i and not a t2i for the flip around screen. i shoot in awkward positions sometimes and it defiantly comes in handy. i would recommend this camera over any one on the market and shoots great in low lighting settings. all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels natural. my favorite thing is the dedicated iso button making it easy to change quickly.Shutter lag (photography)	Minimal shutter lagShutter lag (photography)	T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delaysShutter Lag lag (photography)	Minimal shutter lagShutter Lag lag (photography)	 Very fast auto focus on shooting.Shutter Lag lag (photography)	 shutter and the camera will instantly take a pictureShutter Speed	Slower than T2i Shutter Speed	Minimal shutter lagShutter Speed	What sold me was the guide modeShutter Speed	3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allShutter Speed	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoShutter Speed	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Shutter Speed	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Shutter Speed	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Shutter Speed	rs the 3.7 fps its supposed to.  It makes a huge difference knowing you can press the shutter andShutter Speed	  The T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to.  It makes a huge difference knowing you can press the shutter and the camera will instantly take a pictureShutter Speed	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhyShutter Speed	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasShutter Speed	  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to.  It makes a huge difference knowing you can press the shutter and the camera will instantly take a picture.  The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Shutter Speed	The T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to.  It makes a huge difference knowing you can press the shutter and the camera will instantly take a picture.  The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Shutterlag Shutter lag (photography)	Minimal shutter lagSide Crash Tested	I absolutely love this car seat. It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. I highly recommend this it item.Simplicity	Ease of useSimplicity	Easy to operate.Simplicity	 Easy to operate.Simplicity	 The material is easy to take offSimplicity	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.Size	Very bulkySize	Very bulkySize	Very bulkySize	Very bulky.Size	Very bulky.Size	Very bulky.Size	Very bulky.Size	Very bulky.Size	Very bulky.Size	Very bulky.Size	Very bulky.Size	little smallSize	is gigantic.Size	 a little bigSize	light weight Size	a big car seatSize	fits just fine.Size	the seat is bigSize	e seat is big whSize	work for newbornsSize	too inconvenient.Size	t is a big car seatSize	 size is pretty bigSize	it is a big car seatSize	The seat is giganticSize	The seat is giganticSize	it is a big car seatSize	it is a big car seatSize	The seat is giganticSize	The seat is giganticSize	The seat is giganticSize	The seat is giganticSize	The seat is giganticSize	it is a big car seatSize	The seat is giganticSize	The seat is gigantic.Size	The seat is gigantic.Size	The seat is gigantic.Size	 it is a big car seatSize	Somewhat Compact sizeSize	The seat is gigantic.Size	Somewhat Compact sizeSize	 it is a big car seatSize	The seat is gigantic.Size	The seat is gigantic.Size	The size is pretty bigSize	The size is pretty bigSize	The size is pretty bigSize	The size is pretty bigSize	The size is pretty bigSize	The size is pretty bigSize	The size is pretty bigSize	The size is pretty bigSize	 it is a big car seat Size	The size is pretty bigSize	The size is pretty bigSize	The seat is gigantic.  Size	so I dont mind the bulkSize	  The seat is gigantic.Size	Yes it is a big car seatSize	Big enough for a toddlerSize	Big enough for a toddlerSize	Big enough for a toddlerSize	Big enough for a toddlerSize	igure that a 17in. wide Size	Awesome but a little bigSize	Big enough for a toddlerSize	Although the seat is bigSize	Big enough for a toddlerSize	Big enough for a toddlerSize	Big enough for a toddlerSize	  The size is pretty bigSize	Big enough for a toddlerSize	Big enough for a toddlerSize	17in. wide infant car seatSize	Somewhat Compact sizeEase of useSize	Somewhat Compact sizeEase of useSize	it has fit really well in all cars.Size	 the biggest is this darn sun visorSize	it has fit really well in all cars.Size	  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs Size	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingSize	It is a big seat especially rear facingSize	Now for the cons.  The seat is giganticSize	It is a big seat especially rear facingSize	Big enough for a toddlerEasy to installSize	Now for the cons.  The seat is gigantic.Size	It is a big seat especially rear facing.Size	Now for the cons.  The seat is gigantic. Size	  It is a big seat especially rear facingSize	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerSize	  It is a big seat especially rear facing. Size	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerSize	ight fit but does the job its supposed to do.Size	light weight and fits well in the middle seatSize	we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbsSize	Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do.Size	Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do.Size	The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Size	Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do. Size	The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Size	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much roomSize	It is as many have explained before a little smallSize	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out thereSize	fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Size	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out thereSize	difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle beltSize	While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh.Size	While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh.Size	I have a 2003 Maxima which has a slight bump in the middleSize	I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient.Size	Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Tight fitSize	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our carsSize	Fit my newborns head with the extra cushion that came with it.Size	Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it inSize	but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient.Size	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infinitiSize	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infinitiSize	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti.Size	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti.Size	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti.Size	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti.Size	This seat would onlt fit in the 2nd row in the middle seating positionSize	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. Size	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base.Size	 head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still smallSize	We started shopping around and figure that a 17in. wide infant car seat will doSize	he seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my carSize	he seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car.Size	The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car. Size	 with the side impact shaping its a very tight space to use the light blue head restsSize	 its a very tight space to use the light blue head rests shown in the listing picture.Size	 with the side impact shaping its a very tight space to use the light blue head rests Size	great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.Size	Im sure this is safe enough but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenientSize	It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels.Size	We are able to use our Britax Marathon a Graco booster and this infant car seat all in one row.Size	Additionally with the side impact shaping its a very tight space to use the light blue head restsSize	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inSize	Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortabilitySize	Now for the cons.  The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my carSize	Now for the cons.  The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car.Size	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out thereSize	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out thereSize	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out thereSize	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out thereSize	  The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out thereSize	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Size	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small. Size	Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra.Size	Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra.Size	Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do.Size	Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra.Size	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwardsSize	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards.Size	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsSize	 Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do. Size	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards. Size	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfySize	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.Size	 it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Size	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy. Size	  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.Size	  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.Size	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Size	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Size	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Size	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Size	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Size	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Size	We started shopping around and figure that a 17in. wide infant car seat will do.  I believe this is the only one that fits our need.Size	It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Size	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Size	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Size	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Size	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Size	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Size	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Size	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Size	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well.Size	we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Size	  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car. I currently live in Japan where my hubby is currently stationed with the USMCSize	 a high rear facing weight and height limit.  It is so high in fact that my 3 1/2 year old would still be able to be rear facing in this seat.Size	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives.Size	I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Size	It is as many have explained before a little small as I was used to the bigger and heavier 20D body but I guess is just a matter of getting used to it.Size	  The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car. I currently live in Japan where my hubby is currently stationed with the USMC. Size	Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra. As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once.Size	Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra. As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once.Size	  I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit.  It is so high in fact that my 3 1/2 year old would still be able to be rear facing in this seat.Size	I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all carsSize	I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all carsSize	I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars.Size	I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars.Size	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge carSize	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge carSize	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge carSize	  The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge cSize	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.Size	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.Size	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.Size	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.Size	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.Size	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.Size	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car. Size	  The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.Size	  The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.Size	.  The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.Size	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.Size	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.Size	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.Size	r seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well.Size	We love these carseats.  It is a big seat especially rear facing.  We have a Sienna mini van and we had them both on the bench seat.  Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards.Size	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Size	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Size	 Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Size	 But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing. My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Size	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Size	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Size	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Size	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Size	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well. Overall a very nice car seat for the price.Size	I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars.  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.Size	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra.Size	The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car. I currently live in Japan where my hubby is currently stationed with the USMC.  We drive a large van similar to the old Chevy Astro van.  This seat would onlt fit in the 2nd row in the middle seating position so that it came up almost through the 2 front seats.  I doubt this seat would fit into any other position in any car.  My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing. Between my 3 kids Ive been through about 6 different convertible car seats in the past 8 years and this one was by far the most difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt.  At one point or another Ive had to install all of my previous car seats rear facing with the vehicle belt.  The instructions say to lift the seat pad when threading the belt through which I did but then once the seat was installed I couldnt get the pad back down over the seat where it was against the seat back of the actual vehicle seat.  So I had to uninstall it and reinstall it with the pad in its proper place making it very difficult to do.Size	#N/ASize (big) Supermini Car seat Hyundai Elantra	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.  Also my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly.  It isnt hard to get back on and it is nice that it pops off so it can go on either side but it is annoying when he gets it off and starts throwing it around.  Of course it would be that or his toys or whatever else he could find if he couldnt get it off.  You do need a seat protector but youd need that with any car seat.  I also dont like some of the colors but that is personal preference.Size (lightweight)	 not very heavySize (lightweight)	 Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Size For V	would onlt fit in the 2nd row in the middle seating position so that it came up almost through the 2 front seatsSize For Ve	Very bulkySize For Vehicle	pretty bigSize For Vehicle	The seat is gigantic.Size For Vehicle	 Although the seat is bigSize For Vehicle	has fit really well in all carsSize For Vehicle	 little tricky to get it in. Tight fitSize For Vehicle	It is a big seat especially rear facing.Size For Vehicle	They would have rested on the middle seatsSize For Vehicle	figure that a 17in. wide infant car seat will doSize For Vehicle	fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti.Size For Vehicle	purchased an extra one to have in his 06Nissan Frontier.Size For Vehicle	is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Tight fit Size For Vehicle	could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drivesSize For Vehicle	Other than the issues in rear facing position this is a terrific seat.Size For Vehicle	The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car. Size For Vehicle	17in. wide infant car seat will do.  I believe this is the only one that fits our needSize For Vehicle	This seat would onlt fit in the 2nd row in the middle seating position so that it came up almost through the 2 front seats.Size For Vehicle	Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra Size For Vehicle	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car okSize For Vehicle	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.Size In Smaller Cars Supermini	 but it could be in some of the smaller cars out thereSize Is Pretty Big	he size is pretty big not reallySize Of Car Seat Hyundai Sonata	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Size Of Car Seat Hyundai Sonata	e got this car seat after being very happy with my sons First Years Via car seat.  He was too big already for the extra padding but we had him back facing in this seat for about six months and now have him forward facing.  Hes liked both ways.  I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars.  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfySize Of Images	Better get some means of decent storage space 750-1TB hardrive will doSize Of Seat Is Fairly Large	The size is pretty bigSize Too Bulky	Very bulky. Size Too Big 	  The seat is gigantic.Skate/surf Video	It is GREAT for skate/surf video because ofSleeping	head kept his head from slumping to the sideSleeping	As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once.Sleeping	my daughter falls asleep they hold her head up so its not bobbing all over the placeSlow Auto-focus Nikon D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Camera Color balance Film	Since I have switched from Nikon to Canon a lot of my review is based on comparison to Nikon.ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Slow Focus	Focus in live picture mode is slowSlow Motion motion	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Slow Motion Video Frame rate	60fps HD RecordingSlow Speed	Slower than T2i Slower Than T2i	#N/ASLR	The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRSmaller Cars Supermini	A few things I dont like but not many.  The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out thereSmaller Sensor Nikon D5100	In hindsight The nikon D5100 has a better larger DX sensor vs canon APS sized sensor sensor. So less noise on the Nikon.Smaller Size	 17in. wideSnug	really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Snug Fit	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move aroundSoft Belching	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.Soft Comfy	5.0 out of 5 stars Soft Material	soft and fuzzySoftware Firmware Point-and-shoot camera	.  Apparently this is a discussed firmware issueSoftware Firmware Point-and-shoot camera	Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes.Software Firmware Point-and-shoot camera	My only issue with the T3i concerns the GRID functions. These work only in LIVE VIEW MODE as Ive found so far. As soon as you move up to manual for full control you lose the grid I use the 3x3 which helps me set my composition.Sophistication Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraSophistication Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screenSound Image stabilization	Mic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSpace	Very bulky.Space	Very bulky. Space	has so much roomSpace	has so much roomSpace	it is a big car seatSpace	The seat is giganticSpace	The seat is gigantic. Space	 its a very tight spaceSpace	Big enough for a toddlerSpace Fitting	Very bulkySpace In Smaller Cars	is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Space Occupied	 Yes it is a big car seatSpace Occupied	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move aroundSpace Occupied	They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Spacious	has so much roomSpecifications Product description (business)	Im glad to have this camera it has everything comparable to canon t2  1080p movie 14.2 mp 502g light weight. 3 inch screen .Specifications Product description (business)	Canon EOS Rebel T2i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-inch LCD and and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS LensSpecifications Product description (business)	Currently the product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat.  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Specifics Digital camera Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Liquid crystal display Nikon Canon (company) Zoom lens Camera Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor Single-lens reflex D3100	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsSpecifics Digital camera Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Liquid crystal display Nikon Canon (company) Zoom lens Camera Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor Single-lens reflex D3100	Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Specs	They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that baseSpecs	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Speed  Autofocus Digital single-lens reflex camera Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Shutter 135 film Canon (company) lag Point-and-shoot UV filter	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOther Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Speed Autofocus	T2i is FASTSpeed Autofocus	The T2i is FASTSpeed Autofocus	Slower than T2iSpeed Autofocus	Slower than T2iSpeed Autofocus	The T2i is FASTSpeed Autofocus	The T2i is FASTSpeed Autofocus	Slower than T2iSpeed Autofocus	Slower than T2iSpeed Autofocus	The T2i is FASTSpeed Autofocus	Slower than T2iSpeed Autofocus	The T2i is FASTSpeed Autofocus	The T2i is FASTSpeed Autofocus	Slower than T2iSpeed Autofocus	Slower than T2i Speed Autofocus	Slower than T2i Speed Autofocus	Slower than T2i Speed Autofocus	Slower than T2i Speed Autofocus	The T2i is FAST.Speed Autofocus	Slower than T2i Speed Autofocus	Slower than T2i Speed Autofocus	Slower than T2i Speed Autofocus	Slower than T2i Speed Autofocus	Fast start up speedSpeed Autofocus	Fast start up speedSpeed Autofocus	Fast start up speedSpeed Autofocus	spending that much Speed Autofocus	Fast start up speed Speed Autofocus	Fast start up speed Speed Autofocus	not very fast at allSpeed Autofocus	not very fast at allSpeed Autofocus	turns on in about 1 secondSpeed Autofocus	T2i is the one I will keep.  WhySpeed Autofocus	3.7 max burst rate not very fastSpeed Autofocus	Very fast auto focus on shootingSpeed Autofocus	Very fast auto focus on shootingSpeed Autofocus	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Speed Autofocus	frequent and unpredictable delaysSpeed Autofocus	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Speed Autofocus	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Speed Autofocus	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Speed Autofocus	Focus in live picture mode is slowSpeed Autofocus	 Very fast auto focus on shooting.Speed Autofocus	Focus in live picture mode is slow Speed Autofocus	3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allSpeed Autofocus	3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allSpeed Autofocus	It is GREAT for skate/surf video because of its 60fps mode.Speed Autofocus	decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhySpeed Autofocus	this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shotsSpeed Autofocus	3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shootingSpeed Autofocus	you can press the shutter and the camera will instantly take a pictureSpeed Autofocus	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slowSpeed Autofocus	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow.Speed Autofocus	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Speed Autofocus	Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shotsSpeed Autofocus	  Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots. Speed Autofocus	adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous modeSpeed Autofocus	adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous modeSpeed Autofocus	adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed Autofocus	Fast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondSpeed Autofocus	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Speed Autofocus	ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Speed Autofocus	T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed Autofocus	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous modeSpeed Autofocus	The T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to.  It makes a huge difference knowinSpeed Autofocus	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed Autofocus	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed Autofocus	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed Autofocus	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed Autofocus	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed Autofocus	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed Autofocus	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed Autofocus	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed Autofocus	  The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed Autofocus	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses.Speed Autofocus	For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhySpeed Autofocus	e I would just use it in my husbands car and then order the Britax for my car.  No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all herSpeed Autofocus	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.Speed Autofocus	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhySpeed Autofocus	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhySpeed Autofocus	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhySpeed Autofocus	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhySpeed Autofocus	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhySpeed Autofocus	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhySpeed Autofocus	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasSpeed Autofocus	I used the same exact settings on both cameras large Jpeg P-mode Quick AF.  Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.Speed Autofocus	I used the same exact settings on both cameras large Jpeg P-mode Quick AF.  Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.Speed Autofocus	I used the same exact settings on both cameras large Jpeg P-mode Quick AF.  Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.Speed Autofocus	I used the same exact settings on both cameras large Jpeg P-mode Quick AF.  Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.Speed Autofocus	I used the same exact settings on both cameras large Jpeg P-mode Quick AF.  Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.Speed Autofocus	The T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to.  It makes a huge difference knowing you can press the shutter and the camera will instantly take a picture.  The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed Autofocus	The T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to.  It makes a huge difference knowing you can press the shutter and the camera will instantly take a picture.  The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed Autofocus	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iSpeed Autofocus	#N/ASpeed Autofocus	#N/ASpeed Autofocus	#N/ASpeed Autofocus	#N/ASports	 I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing.Sports	wait until I read more and experiment. I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing. My friends son is Captain of his High School Football team and I have gotten some great shots for him to send to recruiters and colleges now lets talk Sports Video Frame rate	It is GREAT for skate/surf video because of its 60fps mode.Stabilization	The IS works really wellStart Up Speed	Fast start up speedStart Up Speed	Fast start up speedStart Up Speed	Fast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondStart Up Speed	Fast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondStart Up Speed	Fast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondStills	18MP StillsStills	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPStorage Memory card Computer data storage	750-1TB hardrive will doStorage Memory card Computer data storage	I would recommend to get a high speed memory card. The pictures at full 18MP take a lot of memory. Better get some means of decent storage space 750-1TB hardrive will doStrap Adjustment	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.Strap Adjustment	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Strap Minivan Odyssey	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.Straps	adjusting the strapsStraps	No thread adjustable strapsStraps	No thread adjustable strapsStraps	No thread adjustable strapsStraps	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing positionStraps	the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as welStraps	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.Straps	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.Straps	adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seatsStraps	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Straps	hey were pretty easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats. Other than the issues in rear facing position this is a terrific seat.Stroller Compatible	Works perfectly with the Snap N Go stroller piece.Structure Digital single-lens reflex camera Camera	not very heavyStructure Digital single-lens reflex camera Camera	body is rock solid and worthy of purchase for ANY and ALL people entering or needing an advanced DSLR cameraSturdiness	This body is rock solid Sturdiness - Weight  Asymptotic giant branch	Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day.Sturdy	ery sturdy Style	seat is also stylishStyle	but this seat is also stylishStyle	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.Style	This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or styleStyle	we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Style And Function	This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Stylish	Loved the colors as well.Subject	I am not a professional so please dont take my opinion as someone acting as an authority on this subjectSuggestions UV filter	#NAME?Suitable For Babies Of A Wide Age Range	This will even work for newbornsSum Advantages	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Sum Of Negatives Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasSum Of Negatives Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button	Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Summers	May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.Sun  Visor Is Mesh visor	n sun visor. Sun Screening	When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyesSun Visor	 darn sun visorSun Visor	this darn sun visorSun Visor	he biggest is this darn sun visorSun Visor	the biggest is this darn sun visorSun Visor	the biggest is this darn sun visorSun Visor	the biggest is this darn sun visorSun Visor	the biggest is this darn sun visor.Sun Visor	 the biggest is this darn sun visor.Sun Visor	When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Sun Visor	 When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Sun Visor	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Sun Visor	 the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyesSun Visor	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Sun Visor	cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Sun Visor	the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Sun Visor	darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Sun Visor	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinkingSun Visor	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Sun Visor	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Sun Visor	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Sun Visor	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Sun Visor	 the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Sun Visor	cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Sun Visor	on.cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to Sun Visor	ons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Sun Visor	cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Sun Visor	cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Sun Visor Made Of Mesh visor	he biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. ISupport	head/neck support cushionSupport	head/neck support cushionSupport	comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustableT2 Vs T3	2i is the one I will keep.  WhyT2 Vs T3	he t2i over t3i because I didnt feel I would need to use the movable lcd screen T2 Vs T3	whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.T2 Vs T3	same features as the T2i. The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screenT2 Vs T3	T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason onlyT2i	Camera is just amazingT2i	It is very user Friendly and Fun to useT2i	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhyT2i Is Fast	he T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to.  It makes a huge difference knowT2I Is Faster Keep	decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhyT2i_commems_comp	If your looking for a great Camera look no further you have found it  If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100. T3i User (computing) Usability	The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not.T3i User (computing) Usability	Im a film student and was trying to decide between a t3i and Nikon 5100. everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera. the 600d has better continuous recording you have better manual capabilities. after a lot research i decided to go with the canonT3i_comments_comp Canon EOS 60D Prime lens	Eventhough i got this for a normal price i love this camera like anything. Being a beginner in photographyi took much time to decide on models between T2iT3i and 60D. Atlast i bought T3i and i am very much satisfied with the product. Amazon prime helped to get the delivery in a very shortest period which was not imaginable.The only mistake i did was i bought 2 different lens18-55 Take Apart	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Taking Easy Pictures	just not in the auto point and shoot modesTaking Live Pictures	Focus in live picture mode is slowTaking Pictures In Auto Mode	pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camTaking Videos	I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good Taking Wide Angle Pictures Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens	Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Target user type Digital single-lens reflex camera	  It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.Target user type Digital single-lens reflex camera	This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.Target user type Digital single-lens reflex camera	As a first time Digital SLR buyer and user I love this camera and would highly recommend it to others. Target user type Digital single-lens reflex camera	 If you are just starting out are bored with the out of date  point-n-shoot  want to upgrade your digital cams or you want to move from film to digital the T3i will not disappointTarget user type Digital single-lens reflex camera	The T3i is out now so thats probably a better bet but I love the fact that I can slowly advance my knowledge of the SLR usage as I go.  Starting off on full auto moving through the different pre-determined settings sports portrait landscape etc and the into the manual modes.  I figure Im another year or so with this and Ill be ready to upgrade to the 7D and pass this on to my daughter.Texture	 VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabricThe Flash Is Not So Good Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shadeTheir Son Loves It	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Their Son Loves It	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Tight On Power Comsumption	is camera is very tight on power consumption anTight Space	its a very tight space to use the light blue head restsToddler	Big enough for a toddlerToddler	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsToo High ISO  Nikon D3100 Film speed	there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photosToo Much Delays British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital	sponsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.Transition Infant Toddler	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerTransitions	 car seat is very easy to get baby in and out ofTrue To Ad	This camera is exactly as it is advertisedU	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.U	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.U	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.U	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.U	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.U	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Unclear Shots Nikon D3100 Film speed	a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the settingUnprofessional	I am not a professional so please dont take my opinion as someone acting as an authority on this subjectUpgrade	 I am upgrading from a Canon XSIUpgrade	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3iUpgrade	I upgraded from nikon D50 to this. So of course the pictures are much much better.Upgrade	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Upgrade	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Upgrade	#N/AUpgrade	#N/AUpgrade	#N/AUpgrade	#N/AUpgrade	#N/AUpgrade	#N/AUpgrade	#N/AUpgrade	#N/AUpgrade	#N/AUpgrade	#N/AUpgrades Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics)	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lensesUpgrades Lens If Beginner DSLR 135 film (optics)	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensUsability	No Flip-out LCDUsability	Big enough for a toddlerUsability	Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in.Usability	 The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Usability	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Usability	head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Usability	  Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.Usability	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durableUsability	The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.Usability	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsUsability	It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great productUsability	I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Usability	This seat would onlt fit in the 2nd row in the middle seating position so that it came up almost through the 2 front seats.  I doubt this seat would fit into any other position in any carUsability	2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.Usability	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issueUsability	Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Usability	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Usability  Nikon D3100 D5100	Ergonomically the D3100 is the easier to use compared to the D5100 that had to relinquish four buttons to make room for the swivel screen of the D5100. Usability  Nikon D3100 D5100	The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode.Usability  Nikon D3100 D5100	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bitUsability  Nikon D3100 D5100	For ease of use IQ form factor it wont weigh me down etc. I feel as if the D3100 was a great purchase. Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup.Usability  Nikon D3100 D5100	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.  The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. Usability Overall Digital photography Nikon D3100	though an avid photography enthusiast for many years theres not a lot for me to compare the D3100 to. However my own experience in the short week since I purchased the camera has been extremely gratifying. For ease of use IQ form factor it wont weigh me down etc. I feel as if the D3100 was a great purchase. Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup.Usage	Easy to operateUsage	Ive had it for about a year and I love itUsage	very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durableUsage	It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.Use	The T2i is FASTUse	view finder is very clearUse	It is so easy to use and install Use	adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual modeUse For Beginners Digital single-lens reflex camera Lens (optics)	if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lensesUSE- Battery	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expecteUseability	What sold me was the guide mode.User Comfort	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyUser Comfort	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secureUser Comfort	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable and appears to be very safeUser Comfort	ery nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as wellUser Comfort	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.User Comfort	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfyUser Comfort	No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.User Comfort	 it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves itUser Comfort	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyesUser Comfort	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.User Comparison	verses his carrier car seatUser Comparison	I chose it because it has the highest safety rating.User Comparison	Its my first digital SLR Ive had it for about a year and I love it.User Comparison	I did a lot of research on safety price etc. before buying this one.User Comparison	I was used to using point-and-shoots and small flip style video cameras to make my videos.User Comparison	I had almost convinced myself of the T2i. I resisted and ended up waiting to purchase the T3i which was the best decision I made.User Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera	in my opinionUser Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera	A Kids ReviewUser Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera	Hyundai SonataUser Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera	my son LOVES it User Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera	I have a 2003 MaximaUser Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera	Amazon Verified PurchaseUser Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera	if you do skate videos/photosUser Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera	  I havent tested it out yet User Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera	Being a beginner in photographyUser Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera	check me out brittneysheystudios.comUser Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera	Especially if this is your first DSLRUser Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera	Craig Benham - Photographic Adventures Ltd User Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera	since it was out of stock at Amazon and also with 10User Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera	Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. User Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera	My friends son is Captain of his High School Football teamUser Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera	  Both were delivered super fast and in perfect condition.User Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera	came within 2 business days even though I did standard shipping.User Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera	I am person that is making a transition from an old point and shoot to this DLSRUser Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera	 Amazon prime helped to get the delivery in a very shortest period which was not imaginable.User Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera	The car seat was delivered one day after I ordered it online. Which was outstanding. I took it out of the box and my 2 year old became giddy with excitement. User Experience	guide modeUser Experience	my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all hereUser Experience	Its an excellent camera for ANY level of photographer - beginner or experienced pro this camera really shines. User Feedback	his seat is great and my son LOVES itUser Feedback	Again my little girl likes being in the seat and able to look out of the windows at the world around her. I would recommend thisUser Feedback	she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it. Im just thinking how happy she will be when she gets turned around in a few months. This will evenUser Freindly Digital single-lens reflex camera	It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.  It is very user Friendly and Fun to use.User Friendliness	solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand gripUser Friendliness	y I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto modeUser Friendly Digital single-lens reflex camera Canon EF-S lens mount EOS 7D Raw image format Kit 1080p	Easy to operate.User Friendly Digital single-lens reflex camera Canon EF-S lens mount EOS 7D Raw image format Kit 1080p	Being a beginner in photographyUser Friendly Digital single-lens reflex camera Canon EF-S lens mount EOS 7D Raw image format Kit 1080p	It is very user Friendly and Fun to use.User Friendly Digital single-lens reflex camera Canon EF-S lens mount EOS 7D Raw image format Kit 1080p	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menu. The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not.User Friendly Digital single-lens reflex camera Canon EF-S lens mount EOS 7D Raw image format Kit 1080p	a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.  I chose to purchase the camera body separately so that I could pair it with the EF-S 17-55mm f/2.8 IS USM lens.  Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera.  Ive taken some stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens combo.  Save yourself the headache of working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body.  Pair it with the lens of your choice but I have no regrets with my 17-55mm purchase.User Interface Usability (computing)	user-friendly controlsUser Interface Usability (computing)	  It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.  It is very user Friendly and Fun to use.User Opinion	it was rated User Opinion	3.0 out of 5 stars User Opinion	 seemed very comfortable in it User Opinion	A few things I dont like but not manyUser Opinion	I have no regrets with my 17-55mm purchase.User Opinion	it took me a bit to figure out how to work itUser Opinion	I have only scratched the surface of my purchaseUser Opinion	its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.User Opinion	He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.User Opinion	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.User Opinion	If you want to really get serious about photography or video making then get THIS camera.User Opinion	shoots great in low lighting settings. all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels natural. User-friendliness And Functionality Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.User-friendliness Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability	 The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not.User-friendliness Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability	I took some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very good. Also i loved the guide mode when in doubt use guide.User-friendliness Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.User-friendly	Relatively lightUser-friendly	Make sure to get UV filterUser-friendly	Its an excellent camera for ANY level of photographer - beginner or experienced proUser-friendly	user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known forUser-friendly	Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortabilityUser-friendly	The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual modeUser-friendly	The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRsUser-friendly	The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm gripUser-friendly Control Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.Uv Filter And Battery UV filter	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for UV Filter For Lense filter (optics)	Make sure to get UV filterValue  Nikon D3100 Digital photography	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraValue  Nikon D3100 Digital photography	I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.Value  Nikon D3100 Digital photography	 At a glance the camera has a good feel to it and overall has the same features as the T2i. The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take.Value  Nikon D3100 Digital photography	For ease of use IQ form factor it wont weigh me down etc. I feel as if the D3100 was a great purchase. Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup.Value  Nikon D3100 Digital photography	Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera.  Ive taken some stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens combo.  Save yourself the headache of working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body.  Pair it with the lens of your choice but I have no regrets with my 17-55mm purchase.Value Britax Child safety seat	lower than T2i Value Britax Child safety seat	ts wallet friendlyValue Britax Child safety seat	heck of a good dealValue Britax Child safety seat	Bonus- its wallet friendlyValue Britax Child safety seat	They are worth every penny.Value Britax Child safety seat	the price is very reasonableValue Britax Child safety seat	It isnt the cheapest seat out thereValue Britax Child safety seat	For the money the D3100 cant be beat.Value Britax Child safety seat	For the money the D3100 cant be beat.Value Britax Child safety seat	For the money the D3100 cant be beat.Value Britax Child safety seat	Overall a very nice car seat for the price.Value Britax Child safety seat	we dont need to compromise on quality or style.Value Britax Child safety seat	Excellent camera though a bit expensive - worth every penny.Value Britax Child safety seat	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.Value Britax Child safety seat	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the moneyValue Britax Child safety seat	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.Value Britax Child safety seat	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.Value Britax Child safety seat	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Value Britax Child safety seat	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Value Britax Child safety seat	save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lensValue Britax Child safety seat	For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Value Britax Child safety seat	I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.Value Britax Child safety seat	I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.Value Britax Child safety seat	 I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.Value Britax Child safety seat	bottom line is that images from the D3100 are indistinguishable from the more expensive modelsValue Britax Child safety seat	Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Value Britax Child safety seat	Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Value Britax Child safety seat	The macro features are also on par with its more advanced and WAY higher priced big brothers to this cameraValue Britax Child safety seat	  Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEATValue Britax Child safety seat	dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonableValue Britax Child safety seat	It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.Value Britax Child safety seat	It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.Value Britax Child safety seat	Love this car seat   After extensive research and practically being settled on the Britax Advocate I feel like you get what you pay forValue Britax Child safety seat	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses.Value Britax Child safety seat	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much . But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazingValue Britax Child safety seat	great deal for the price. I understand each car seat has to meet standards but I have been please with this one and my husband just purchased an extra one to have in his 06Nissan FrontierValue Britax Child safety seat	It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.Value Britax Child safety seat	Ive purchased SnugRides in the past but this is the first one to have a serious lack of adequate padding.  Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEATValue Britax Child safety seat	I had been taking pictures with my roommates Canon EOS t2i for months and then I decided to get my own entry-level DSLR. Ive compared Canon EOS t2i with Nikon D3100 and finally I picked D3100. I am very happy about the decision.Value Britax Child safety seat	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am sure the Nikon D5100 is a spectacular camera and it sports a larder image sensor than the Canon. I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.Value Britax Child safety seat	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.  I conducted countless hours of research on Canons Nikons and even Sonys.  I was used to using point-and-shoots and small flip style video cameras to make my videos.  I looked into DSLRs and really wanted a canon.  YOU CANT GO WRONG WITH THIS CAMERA   It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.  It is very user Friendly and Fun to use.Value For Money	worth every pennyValue For Money	Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kitValue For Money	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.Value For Money	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonableValue For Money	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Value For Money	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much Value For Money	It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good dealValue For Money	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.Value/Price	Great value for the priceVariability	I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing.Varitey	nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazingVedio Autofocus Digital zoom	No autofocus when zooming while taking videoVery Big. Might Not Fit In Small Cars	Very bulkyVery Bulky	so I dont mind the bulkVery Fast Auto Focus Autofocus	Very fast auto focus on shootingVery Fast Auto Shooting Autofocus	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Very Secure And Kids Love Them	It holds the girls very secure and they love them.Very Sturdy  Point-and-shoot camera Camera Eastman Kodak	choice.  Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode so it acts like a point and shoot.  Compared to my Kodak point and shoot the pictures are great.  I love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy.  It looks like it should be but does not feel like it is.  It appears to be a very sturdy camera.Video	080P videoVideo	nice videoVideo	nice videoVideo	1080P videoVideo	60fps HD RecordingVideo	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDINGVideo	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDINGVideo	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDINGVideo	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDINGVideo	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDINGVideo	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDINGVideo	The best part was the 1080PVideo	best part was the 1080P videoVideo	Takes good quality of videos.Video	Takes good quality of videos.Video	Takes good quality of videos.Video	Digital 3x zoom in video mode.Video	video manual focus on the CanonVideo	No audio recording level adjustVideo	Oh and the video.....Its 1080p HDVideo	The best part was the 1080P videoVideo	The best part was the 1080P videoVideo	The best part was the 1080P video.Video	600d has better continuous recordingVideo	good low-light performance nice videoVideo	 good low-light performance nice video.Video	60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Video	60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Video	No autofocus when zooming while taking videoVideo	The lens makes noises when youre recording videosVideo	guess now i can finally retire my mini DV video cameraVideo	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoVideo	It is GREAT for skate/surf video because of its 60fps mode.Video	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Video	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Video	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Video	Oh and the video.....Its 1080p HD nothing more needs to be said.Video	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Video	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Video	you would have thought I used a real video camera and not one from a cameraVideo	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Video	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurateVideo	ets talk Video I have taken alot for Football and I can not believe the quality and sound you would have thought I used a real video camera and nVideo	ideo modes in SLR cameras are fairly useless unless you are good with manual focussing and use the tripod. BTW the lens IS does work in video mode.Video	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor.Video	lets talk Video I have taken alot for Football and I can not believe the quality and sound you would have thought I used a real video camera and not one from a camera it has surpassed what I have expected for a camera I am unbelievably happy with my purchase.Video	now lets talk Video I have taken alot for Football and I can not believe the quality and sound you would have thought I used a real video camera and not one from a camera it has surpassed what I have expected for a camera I am unbelievably happy with my purchase.Video	 After testing out all the products I came to the decision that the only cameras I liked that felt good in my hand were the Canon T2i Nikon D5100 and the Can T3i. I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal. The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor.Video	#N/AVideo Auto-focus Autofocus Shutter (photography) button	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the pictureVideo Features Nikon D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Canon (company) Manual focus	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am sure the Nikon D5100 is a spectacular camera and it sports a larder image sensor than the Canon. I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.Video Manual Focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Autofocus Camera	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am sure the Nikon D5100 is a spectacular camera and it sports aVideo Manual Focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Autofocus Camera	 The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am sure the Nikon D5100 is a spectacular camera and it sports a larder image sensor than the Canon. I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.Video Performance Frame rate	60fps HD RecordingVideo Performance Frame rate	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoVideo Quality	60fps HD RecordingVideo Quality	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDINGVideo Quality	the video truly being 1080pVideo Quality	Takes good quality of videos.Video Quality	Takes good quality of videos.Video Quality	Takes good quality of videos.Video Quality	 Takes good quality of videos.Video Quality	Oh and the video.....Its 1080p HDVideo Quality	 The best part was the 1080P video.Video Quality	3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allVideo Quality	we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100Video Quality	Oh and the video.....Its 1080p HD nothing more needs to be said. Video Quality	3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Video Quality	went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screenVideo Quality	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the pictureVideo Quality	The best part was the 1080P video. I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so goodVideo Quality	Video I have taken alot for Football and I can not believe the quality and sound you would have thought I used a real video camera and not one from a cameraVideo Quality	lets talk Video I have taken alot for Football and I can not believe the quality and sound you would have thought I used a real video camera and not one from a cameraVideo Quality	The best part was the 1080P video. I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good and my wife who is very difficult to please liked it so much that she said that next time we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100Video Quality	 The best part was the 1080P video. I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good and my wife who is very difficult to please liked it so much that she said that next time we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100Video Quality	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasVideo Quality	The best part was the 1080P video. I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good and my wife who is very difficult to please liked it so much that she said that next time we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100  I guess now i can finally retire my mini DV video cameraVideo Quality	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menu. The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not. I am a person to read through and learn the various features the camera has to offer. I am impressed with the lens that comes with the camera for the wide angle aspect of it due to a lot of places I shoot pictures there are a lot of people and requires me to get close to get the shot I wantVideo Recording  Image stabilization	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iVideo Recording Slow motion	60fps HD RecordingVideo Recording Slow motion	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDINGVideo Recording Slow motion	 The best part was the 1080P videoVideo Recording Slow motion	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Video Recording Slow motion	For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhyVideo Recording Slow motion	#N/AVideo Taking 1080p	The best part was the 1080P videoVideo Taking 1080p	the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menu.Video Zoom	Digital 3x zoomVideo Zoom External Flash	Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.View Finder	 a view finder that movesView Finder	reference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100. View Finder	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100View Finder	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.View Of Driver Headrest	head rest is removableVisibility  Headrest	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Visor	the biggest is this darn sun visorVisor	cons the biggest is this darn sun visorVisor	darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Visor	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun outVisor	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out.Visor Does Not Block Any Sun Keep	I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out.Voice Recording	No audio recording level adjustWallet Friendly	onus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want Wallet Friendly Britax	Worse case I would just use it in my husbands car and then order the Britax for my car.  No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.  I am going to order another one of these for my husbands car.  It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Warranty	My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty serviceWarranty	 My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.Warranty	sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised.Warranty	Canon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.Warranty	ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.Warranty Service	pathetic nikon warranty service.Warranty Service	Canon service is apparently better than nikon.Warranty Service	Canon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.Washability	he part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.Washing Headrest	headrest pad is attached to another pad that continues down the back behind the main pad   So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to washWashing Most Of It	there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to washWeigh	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for tripsWeigh	The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm gripWeigh	. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both haWeight  Autofocus Digital single-lens reflex camera Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Shutter 135 film Canon (company) lag Point-and-shoot UV filter	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOther Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Weight Lightweight	Very bulky.Weight Lightweight	Light weightWeight Lightweight	heavy enoughWeight Lightweight	Light weightWeight Lightweight	quite light Weight Lightweight	light weightWeight Lightweight	not very heavy.Weight Lightweight	Relatively lightWeight Lightweight	Relatively lightWeight Lightweight	Relatively lightWeight Lightweight	Relatively lightWeight Lightweight	Relatively lightWeight Lightweight	Relatively lightWeight Lightweight	Relatively lightWeight Lightweight	elatively light Weight Lightweight	Relatively lightWeight Lightweight	 Relatively lightWeight Lightweight	Relatively light Weight Lightweight	2 pounds with lensWeight Lightweight	d is not very heavyWeight Lightweight	The seat is gigantic.Weight Lightweight	Light weight great body designWeight Lightweight	Light weight great body designWeight Lightweight	Light weight great body designWeight Lightweight	Light weight great body designWeight Lightweight	mparisons I decided on this camWeight Lightweight	 Light weight great body designWeight Lightweight	Light weight great body design.Weight Lightweight	Light weight great body design.Weight Lightweight	 Light weight great body designWeight Lightweight	about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lensWeight Lightweight	. Light weight great body designWeight Lightweight	 Light weight great body design. Weight Lightweight	form factor it wont weigh me downWeight Lightweight	 Light weight great body design. Weight Lightweight	light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lensWeight Lightweight	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lensWeight Lightweight	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lensWeight Lightweight	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lensWeight Lightweight	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lensWeight Lightweight	 Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lensWeight Lightweight	 I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. Weight Lightweight	and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well.Weight Lightweight	light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all dayWeight Lightweight	this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera.Weight Lightweight	but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day. Weight Lightweight	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infinitiWeight Lightweight	ight weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. Weight Lightweight	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for tripsWeight Lightweight	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for tripsWeight Lightweight	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for tripsWeight Lightweight	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for tripsWeight Lightweight	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti.Weight Lightweight	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for tripsWeight Lightweight	elatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Weight Lightweight	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Weight Lightweight	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Weight Lightweight	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Weight Lightweight	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Weight Lightweight	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Weight Lightweight	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Weight Lightweight	 Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Weight Lightweight	 Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Weight Lightweight	- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Weight Lightweight	I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit.Weight Lightweight	D3100 14.2MP Digital SLR Camera with 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 AF-S DX VR Nikkor Zoom Lens CameraWeight Lightweight	heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all dayWeight Lightweight	Nikon D3100 16.2MP CMOS Digital SLR Camera with 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 AF-S DX VR Nikkor Zoom LensWeight Lightweight	Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.Weight Lightweight	 Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.Weight Lightweight	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Weight Lightweight	The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRWeight Lightweight	  I love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy.  It looks like it should beWeight Lightweight	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwardsWeight Lightweight	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Weight Lightweight	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Weight Lightweight	Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day.Weight Lightweight	 love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy.  It looks like it should be but does not feel like it is.  It appears to be a very sturdy camera.Weight Lightweight	I love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy.  It looks like it should be but does not feel like it is.  It appears to be a very sturdy camera.Weight Lightweight	Currently the product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat.  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbsWeight Lightweight	It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Weight Lightweight	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Weight Lightweight	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Weight Lightweight	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Weight Lightweight	#N/AWeight Lightweight	#N/AWeight Lightweight	#N/AWeight Lightweight	#N/AWeight Limit	weight limit Weight Limit	higher weight limitWeight Limit	higher weight limitWeight Limit	higher weight limit Weight Limit	higher weight limit as well.Weight Limit	higher weight limit as well. Weight Limit	  The seat holds a child up to 65lbsWeight Limit	it has a higher weight limit as wellWeight Limit	I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limitWeight Limit	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Weight Limit	I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Weight Limit Not Correctly Stated	he seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Weight Limits Product description (business)	Currently the product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat.  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Well Made	It is a well made and designed car seatWell Made	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Well Padded	seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.Well Padded And Easy To Install	  Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.  I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.  Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.  Ive felt a lot of other car seats out there that feel like theyd be pretty hard to sit on and uncomfortable.White Balance Color balance	White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up.White Balance Color balance	White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. White Balance Color balance	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original fileWhite Balance Color balance	White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.White Balance Color balance	White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.White Balance In Auto Mode Color balance	White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.Wide Angle Settings Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens	when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shadeWide-angle Performance Lens (optics) lens	Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shadeWide-Angle Setting Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasWing Cleaning	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.Wireless	o wireless remote.Wireless	No wireless remoteWireless	The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelesslyWireless	The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelesslyWireless	No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.Wireless Remote	No wireless remote.Working With Other Products	Works perfectly with the Snap N Go stroller piece.Worth The Price	Excellent camera though a bit expensive - worth every penny.Worthwhile Price	Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kitZoom Capabilities Kit lens Canon EF-S mount	I took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality. I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer. The quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it. I also took a picture of a cherry tree that was about 30 yards away and then opened it up in Photoshop zoomed in and could see cherries that I could not even see with my eyes from the spot where I took the picture. I can not wait to get Canon 15-85mm f/3.5-5.6 EF-S Zoom Lens and than I will be in some serious business.Zoom Nikon AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	doesnt zoom far enough at allZoom Nikon AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	f you are looking to do mainly surf but this camera BODY ONLY + a 18-135mm 55-200mm or 75-300mmZoom Nikon AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Zoom Nikon AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Zoom Nikon AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer. Zoom Nikon AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	 I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer.Zoom Nikon AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	 I am impressed with the lens that comes with the camera for the wide angle aspect of it due to a lot of places I shoot pictures there are a lot of people and requires me to get close to get the shot I wantZoom Nikon AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	 I also took a picture of a cherry tree that was about 30 yards away and then opened it up in Photoshop zoomed in and could see cherries that I could not even see with my eyes from the spot where I took the pictureZoom Nikon AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	#N/AZoom Nikon AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	#N/AZooming Autofocus Digital zoom	No autofocus when zooming 