Labels	ClipsBig	bigUser Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera High school football in North America American Hyundai Sonata Business day Out of the box	LOLspeed 	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Better Quality Cameras And Price 	not much difference betrween t2i and the t3i. for 150 bucks lessProsumer Digital single-lens reflex camera 	It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR0 Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners	e money on lense0 Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners	Excellent Beginners DSLR0 Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners	I took some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very good.0 Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners	I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing.1080p And Better Menu Liquid crystal display	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menu. The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not.1080p Video Quality	The best part was the 1080P video.1080P Video Speed 1080p	1080P video18-135 Lens Large	The 18-135 lens is nice but a bit large7D	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a cropA Beginner's Camera Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners	Excellent Beginners DSLRA Beginner's Camera Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners	As a first time Digital SLR buyer and user I love this camera and would highly recommend it to others.A Bit Inconvenient Bulky Chevrolet Malibu Pool noodle	We are using this as a rear facing seat in our Chevy Malibu and it fits just fine. Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Im glad we had the Chicco Keyfit 30 when our guy was an infant. Im sure this is safe enough but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient. Even though my son isnt quiet 1 yet he was ready for a more toddler friendly seat. This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him. I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Overall Im very satisfied with my purchase.A Little Difficult To Install	little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickAbilities Slow motion Articulating screen	slow motionAbilities Slow motion Articulating screen	articulating screenAccesories	he next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra baseAccessories HDMI 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) UV filter EF-S lens mount F-number EF Transcend Information Secure Digital Memory card single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Nikon Close-up 35 mm Camera Autofocus DX format Light Kit Headache Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	darn sun visorAccessories HDMI 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) UV filter EF-S lens mount F-number EF Transcend Information Secure Digital Memory card single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Nikon Close-up 35 mm Camera Autofocus DX format Light Kit Headache Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	 flip out LCD screenAccessories HDMI 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) UV filter EF-S lens mount F-number EF Transcend Information Secure Digital Memory card single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Nikon Close-up 35 mm Camera Autofocus DX format Light Kit Headache Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	Battery life is not too greatAccessories HDMI 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) UV filter EF-S lens mount F-number EF Transcend Information Secure Digital Memory card single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Nikon Close-up 35 mm Camera Autofocus DX format Light Kit Headache Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	comes with head/neck support cushion.Accessories HDMI 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) UV filter EF-S lens mount F-number EF Transcend Information Secure Digital Memory card single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Nikon Close-up 35 mm Camera Autofocus DX format Light Kit Headache Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	Works perfectly with the Snap N Go stroller pieceAccessories HDMI 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) UV filter EF-S lens mount F-number EF Transcend Information Secure Digital Memory card single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Nikon Close-up 35 mm Camera Autofocus DX format Light Kit Headache Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	here are very many accessories and lenses for this camera.Accessories HDMI 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) UV filter EF-S lens mount F-number EF Transcend Information Secure Digital Memory card single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Nikon Close-up 35 mm Camera Autofocus DX format Light Kit Headache Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quicklyAccessories HDMI 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) UV filter EF-S lens mount F-number EF Transcend Information Secure Digital Memory card single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Nikon Close-up 35 mm Camera Autofocus DX format Light Kit Headache Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	There are very many accessories and lenses for this camera.  Accessories HDMI 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) UV filter EF-S lens mount F-number EF Transcend Information Secure Digital Memory card single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Nikon Close-up 35 mm Camera Autofocus DX format Light Kit Headache Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	Disappointed they offer HDMI input but dont provided the cable.Accessories HDMI 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) UV filter EF-S lens mount F-number EF Transcend Information Secure Digital Memory card single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Nikon Close-up 35 mm Camera Autofocus DX format Light Kit Headache Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quicklyAccessories HDMI 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) UV filter EF-S lens mount F-number EF Transcend Information Secure Digital Memory card single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Nikon Close-up 35 mm Camera Autofocus DX format Light Kit Headache Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	but it is annoying when he gets it off and starts throwing it aroundAccessories HDMI 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) UV filter EF-S lens mount F-number EF Transcend Information Secure Digital Memory card single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Nikon Close-up 35 mm Camera Autofocus DX format Light Kit Headache Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensAccessories HDMI 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) UV filter EF-S lens mount F-number EF Transcend Information Secure Digital Memory card single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Nikon Close-up 35 mm Camera Autofocus DX format Light Kit Headache Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base.Accessories HDMI 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) UV filter EF-S lens mount F-number EF Transcend Information Secure Digital Memory card single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Nikon Close-up 35 mm Camera Autofocus DX format Light Kit Headache Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	I wound up purchasing a 50mm 1.4 off a local photographer off CL and I love that lensAccessories HDMI 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) UV filter EF-S lens mount F-number EF Transcend Information Secure Digital Memory card single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Nikon Close-up 35 mm Camera Autofocus DX format Light Kit Headache Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lensAccessories HDMI 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) UV filter EF-S lens mount F-number EF Transcend Information Secure Digital Memory card single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Nikon Close-up 35 mm Camera Autofocus DX format Light Kit Headache Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	consider getting a 50mm f1.8 or 1.4 lens and a fisheye/wideangle if you do skate videos/photosAccessories HDMI 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) UV filter EF-S lens mount F-number EF Transcend Information Secure Digital Memory card single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Nikon Close-up 35 mm Camera Autofocus DX format Light Kit Headache Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	purchase the camera body separately so that I could pair it with the EF-S 17-55mm f/2.8 IS USM lensAccessories HDMI 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) UV filter EF-S lens mount F-number EF Transcend Information Secure Digital Memory card single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Nikon Close-up 35 mm Camera Autofocus DX format Light Kit Headache Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRsAccessories HDMI 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) UV filter EF-S lens mount F-number EF Transcend Information Secure Digital Memory card single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Nikon Close-up 35 mm Camera Autofocus DX format Light Kit Headache Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Accessories HDMI 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) UV filter EF-S lens mount F-number EF Transcend Information Secure Digital Memory card single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Nikon Close-up 35 mm Camera Autofocus DX format Light Kit Headache Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Accessories HDMI 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) UV filter EF-S lens mount F-number EF Transcend Information Secure Digital Memory card single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Nikon Close-up 35 mm Camera Autofocus DX format Light Kit Headache Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	pictures at full 18MP take a lot of memory. Better get some means of decent storage space 750-1TB hardrive will doAccessories HDMI 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) UV filter EF-S lens mount F-number EF Transcend Information Secure Digital Memory card single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Nikon Close-up 35 mm Camera Autofocus DX format Light Kit Headache Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	 They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Accessories HDMI 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) UV filter EF-S lens mount F-number EF Transcend Information Secure Digital Memory card single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Nikon Close-up 35 mm Camera Autofocus DX format Light Kit Headache Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	There are very many accessories and lenses for this camera.  If you want to really get serious about photography or video making then get THIS camera.Accessories HDMI 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) UV filter EF-S lens mount F-number EF Transcend Information Secure Digital Memory card single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Nikon Close-up 35 mm Camera Autofocus DX format Light Kit Headache Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	  Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or more.  I purchased two Transcend 8GB Class 10 SDHC Card TS8GSDHC10 from Amazon and so far these have been amazing.Accessories HDMI 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) UV filter EF-S lens mount F-number EF Transcend Information Secure Digital Memory card single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Nikon Close-up 35 mm Camera Autofocus DX format Light Kit Headache Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	Save yourself the headache of working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body.  Pair it with the lens of your choice but I have no regrets with my 17-55mm purchase.Accessories HDMI 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) UV filter EF-S lens mount F-number EF Transcend Information Secure Digital Memory card single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Nikon Close-up 35 mm Camera Autofocus DX format Light Kit Headache Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	memory cards that they certified to use with this camera.  Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or more.  I purchased two Transcend 8GB Class 10 SDHC Card TS8GSDHC10 from Amazon Accessories HDMI 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) UV filter EF-S lens mount F-number EF Transcend Information Secure Digital Memory card single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Nikon Close-up 35 mm Camera Autofocus DX format Light Kit Headache Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	highly recommend you to also get a Nikon 35mm f/1.8G AF-S DX Lens for Nikon Digital SLR Cameras. It can be used to take short range portraits close-ups and indoors where the light is insufficientAcessories Kit lens System camera (association football) Camera	working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera bodyAdaptability  Usability User (computing)	 user-friendly controlsAdaptability  Usability User (computing)	Works perfectly with the Snap N Go stroller piece.Adaptability  Usability User (computing)	  Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode so it acts like a point and shoot.Adaptability For Beginners	Perfect for a beginnerAdaptability For Beginners  Digital single-lens reflex camera	if this is your first DSLRAdditional Feature Digital single-lens reflex camera Liquid crystal display Autofocus Pixel Nikon Canon (company) Megapixel Zoom lens Camera Single-lens Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor D3100 Image stabilization	articulating LCD screenAdditional Feature Digital single-lens reflex camera Liquid crystal display Autofocus Pixel Nikon Canon (company) Megapixel Zoom lens Camera Single-lens Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor D3100 Image stabilization	T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.Additional Feature Digital single-lens reflex camera Liquid crystal display Autofocus Pixel Nikon Canon (company) Megapixel Zoom lens Camera Single-lens Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor D3100 Image stabilization	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iCons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingAdditional Feature Digital single-lens reflex camera Liquid crystal display Autofocus Pixel Nikon Canon (company) Megapixel Zoom lens Camera Single-lens Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor D3100 Image stabilization	I will make a brief of my own experience of this camera to DSLR beginnersPros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Additional Features Headrest	No wireless remote.Additional Features Headrest	head rest is removableAdditional Features Headrest	The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.Additional Info Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Canon (company) Lens (optics)	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.Additional Things Required	  You do need a seat protector but youd need that with any car seat.Adjust	but I do NOT love cleaning itAdjust	you can recline it at 3 different levelsAdjust	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing positionAdjust In Rear Facing	adjusting the strapsAdjust In Rear Facing	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.Adjust Strap Length	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing positionAdjustability Headrest	head rest is removable Adjustability Headrest	base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levelsAdjustable And Reclines	recline it at 3 different levelsAdjustable And Reclines	adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levelsAdjustable Headrest Keep Pool noodle Noodle Liquid crystal display Camera Computer monitor	higher weight limitAdjustable Headrest Keep Pool noodle Noodle Liquid crystal display Camera Computer monitor	height is adjustable Adjustable Headrest Keep Pool noodle Noodle Liquid crystal display Camera Computer monitor	head rest is removableAdjustable Headrest Keep Pool noodle Noodle Liquid crystal display Camera Computer monitor	Cant adjust strap lengthAdjustable Headrest Keep Pool noodle Noodle Liquid crystal display Camera Computer monitor	No thread adjustable strapsAdjustable Headrest Keep Pool noodle Noodle Liquid crystal display Camera Computer monitor	This will even work for newbornsAdjustable Headrest Keep Pool noodle Noodle Liquid crystal display Camera Computer monitor	base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levelsAdjustable Headrest Keep Pool noodle Noodle Liquid crystal display Camera Computer monitor	next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra baseAdjustable Headrest Keep Pool noodle Noodle Liquid crystal display Camera Computer monitor	t is so high in fact that my 3 1/2 year old would still be able to be rear facing in this seatAdjustable Headrest Keep Pool noodle Noodle Liquid crystal display Camera Computer monitor	If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath Adjustable Headrest Keep Pool noodle Noodle Liquid crystal display Camera Computer monitor	back facing in this seat for about six months and now have him forward facing.  Hes liked both waysAdjustable Headrest Keep Pool noodle Noodle Liquid crystal display Camera Computer monitor	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Adjustable Headrest Keep Pool noodle Noodle Liquid crystal display Camera Computer monitor	we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2Adjustable Headrest Keep Pool noodle Noodle Liquid crystal display Camera Computer monitor	.  They were pretty easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats.Adjustable Headrest Keep Pool noodle Noodle Liquid crystal display Camera Computer monitor	rticulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possibleAdjustable Position	the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levelsAdjustable Straps	No thread adjustable strapsAdjustable Straps	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing positionAdjustable Straps	adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seatsAdjustable Straps	  I love the no rethread harness and although it took me a bit to figure out how to work it it is still fairly simple and much preferrable over the rethread type.Adjusting Strap Length In Rear Position	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing positionAdjusting While Facing Rear	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing positionAdvice UV filter Filter (optics)	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare batteryAF Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Affordability Wallet	wallet friendlyAffordability Wallet	wallet friendlyAffordability Wallet	the price is very reasonable.Affordable Nikon D3100	  For the money the D3100 cant be beat.Agreement	79 of 81 people found the following review helpfuAmount Or Placement Of Padding	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.And Videos Shutter lag (photography)	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Angle Settings Can Create Shade Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens	wide angle setting lens creates a shadeAnnoying Features	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Annoying Features	he biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Aperture Nikon AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G 135 film	8-135mm 55-200mm or 75-300mmApplication Autofocus Shutter (photography) button	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the pictureArgument Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal.Articulated LCD Screen Menu (computing)	The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode. I especially like the articulated LCD screen Articulating LCD Screen Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screenArticulating LCD Screen Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. Articulating LCD Screen Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	i went with a t3i and not a t2i for the flip around screen. i shoot in awkward positions sometimes and it defiantly comes in handy.Articulating screen Image stabilization	The articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2iArticulating Screen screen Image stabilization	he articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2iAstrophotography Autofocus Long-exposure photography	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingAttachments Sun visor	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily Attachments Sun visor	 the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Attribute- Design	seat seams padded well and comfortable for my sonAttribute- Design	put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingAttribute- Design	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inAttribute- Easy Child Placement/removal	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durableAttribute- Ergonomic Design Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge)	ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to useAttribute- Pixel And Grain Makeup Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Color balance	Low resolution of LCD screenAttribute- Pixel And Grain Makeup Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Color balance	rom the amount of grain in the pictureAttribute- Pixel And Grain Makeup Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Color balance	White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ishAttribute- Quick Auto Focus Autofocus	Very fast auto focus on shootingAttribute- Quick Auto Focus Autofocus	T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed toAttribute- Quick Installation Parent-in-law	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutesAttribute- Saving In 2 Forms Till Used To Camera JPEG	I have the camera saving in both RAW and JPEG until I can get familiar enough to switch completely to RAWAttributes Autofocus Digital zoom Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Canon (company) 1080p	No autofocus when zooming while taking videoAttributes Autofocus Digital zoom Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Canon (company) 1080p	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.Attributes Autofocus Digital zoom Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Canon (company) 1080p	T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. Attributes Autofocus Digital zoom Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Canon (company) 1080p	 main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menu. The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not.Audience Digital single-lens reflex camera Camera Canon EOS 60D	not a professional Audience Digital single-lens reflex camera Camera Canon EOS 60D	erfect for a beginneAudience Digital single-lens reflex camera Camera Canon EOS 60D	you have better manual capabilitieAudience Digital single-lens reflex camera Camera Canon EOS 60D	or needing an advanced DSLR camera.Audience Digital single-lens reflex camera Camera Canon EOS 60D	 Being a beginner in photographyi took much time to decide on models between T2iT3i and 60D. Atlast i bought T3i and i am very much satisfied with the product. Audio	o audio recording level adjustAudio	No audio recording level adjustAudio	No audio recording level adjustAudio	No audio recording level adjustAudio Levels	No audio recording level adjustAudio Recording Autofocus Long-exposure photography	No audio recording level adjustAudio Recording Autofocus Long-exposure photography	No audio recording level adjustAudio Recording Autofocus Long-exposure photography	No audio recording level adjustAudio Recording Autofocus Long-exposure photography	No audio recording level adjustAudio Recording Autofocus Long-exposure photography	No audio recording level adjustAudio Recording Autofocus Long-exposure photography	No audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingAudio Recording Level Adjust	No audio recording level adjustAudip	No audio recording level adjustAuto	Auto mode so it acts like a point and shootAuto	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forAuto Focus Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Shutter (photography) button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Nikon D3100	Almost no low light auto focusAuto Focus Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Shutter (photography) button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Nikon D3100	Almost no low light auto focusAuto Focus Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Shutter (photography) button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Nikon D3100	uto focus in  live view  mode Auto Focus Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Shutter (photography) button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Nikon D3100	Very fast auto focus on shootingAuto Focus Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Shutter (photography) button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Nikon D3100	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Auto Focus Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Shutter (photography) button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Nikon D3100	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Auto Focus Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Shutter (photography) button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Nikon D3100	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Auto Focus Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Shutter (photography) button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Nikon D3100	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Auto Focus Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Shutter (photography) button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Nikon D3100	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Auto Focus Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Shutter (photography) button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Nikon D3100	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Auto Focus Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Shutter (photography) button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Nikon D3100	No autofocus when zooming while taking videoAuto Focus Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Shutter (photography) button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Nikon D3100	No autofocus when zooming while taking videoAuto Focus Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Shutter (photography) button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Nikon D3100	Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasAuto Focus Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Shutter (photography) button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Nikon D3100	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingAuto Focus Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Shutter (photography) button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Nikon D3100	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingAuto Focus Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Shutter (photography) button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Nikon D3100	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slowAuto Focus Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Shutter (photography) button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Nikon D3100	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow.Auto Focus Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Shutter (photography) button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Nikon D3100	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow.Auto Focus Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Shutter (photography) button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Nikon D3100	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow.Auto Focus Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Shutter (photography) button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Nikon D3100	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Auto Focus Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Shutter (photography) button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Nikon D3100	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Auto Focus Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Shutter (photography) button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Nikon D3100	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Auto Focus Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Shutter (photography) button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Nikon D3100	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Auto Focus Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Shutter (photography) button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Nikon D3100	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Auto Focus Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Shutter (photography) button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Nikon D3100	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Auto Focus Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Shutter (photography) button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Nikon D3100	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Auto Focus Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Shutter (photography) button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Nikon D3100	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Auto Focus Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Shutter (photography) button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Nikon D3100	 No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasAuto Focus For Video Autofocus Shutter (photography) button	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Auto Focus Is Terrible Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Auto Focus Slow Nikon D5100 Autofocus Canon (company) Manual focus	 video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am Auto Foucus Autofocus	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Auto ISO Level Chossing Nikon D3100 Film speed	there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto ModeAuto ISO Nikon D3100	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Auto Lens Mode Nikon D3100 Out of the box Point-and-shoot camera dial Film speed	Auto modeAuto Lens Mode Nikon D3100 Out of the box Point-and-shoot camera dial Film speed	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of picturesAuto Lens Mode Nikon D3100 Out of the box Point-and-shoot camera dial Film speed	took some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very goodAuto Lens Mode Nikon D3100 Out of the box Point-and-shoot camera dial Film speed	 Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of picturesAuto Lens Mode Nikon D3100 Out of the box Point-and-shoot camera dial Film speed	 took some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very good.Auto Lens Mode Nikon D3100 Out of the box Point-and-shoot camera dial Film speed	the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Auto Lens Mode Nikon D3100 Out of the box Point-and-shoot camera dial Film speed	the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Auto Lens Mode Nikon D3100 Out of the box Point-and-shoot camera dial Film speed	it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes.Auto Lens Mode Nikon D3100 Out of the box Point-and-shoot camera dial Film speed	I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Auto Lens Mode Nikon D3100 Out of the box Point-and-shoot camera dial Film speed	 I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Auto Lens Mode Nikon D3100 Out of the box Point-and-shoot camera dial Film speed	 there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the settingAuto Lens Mode Nikon D3100 Out of the box Point-and-shoot camera dial Film speed	there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.Auto Lens Mode Nikon D3100 Out of the box Point-and-shoot camera dial Film speed	right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forAuto Lens Mode Nikon D3100 Out of the box Point-and-shoot camera dial Film speed	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for. Auto Lens Mode Nikon D3100 Out of the box Point-and-shoot camera dial Film speed	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for. Auto Lens Mode Nikon D3100 Out of the box Point-and-shoot camera dial Film speed	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for. Auto Lens Mode Nikon D3100 Out of the box Point-and-shoot camera dial Film speed	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.Auto Lens Mode Nikon D3100 Out of the box Point-and-shoot camera dial Film speed	You would expect Auto Modes to take easy great pictures in an entry level camera most people coming from point and shoot cameras.  If you want sharp pictures you have to use P S A or M modes with the D3100.  Auto Lens Mode Nikon D3100 Out of the box Point-and-shoot camera dial Film speed	  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.Auto Lens Mode Nikon D3100 Out of the box Point-and-shoot camera dial Film speed	 I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.Auto Lens Mode Nikon D3100 Out of the box Point-and-shoot camera dial Film speed	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the pictureAuto Lens Mode Nikon D3100 Out of the box Point-and-shoot camera dial Film speed	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.Auto Lens Mode Nikon D3100 Out of the box Point-and-shoot camera dial Film speed	Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Auto Mode - Focus Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Shutter (photography) button	 Very fast auto focus on shooting.Auto Mode - Focus Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Shutter (photography) button	 No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Auto Mode - Focus Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Shutter (photography) button	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Auto Mode - Quality Nikon D3100 Film speed	there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photos.Auto Mode - Quality Nikon D3100 Film speed	I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Auto Mode Logic Nikon D3100	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Auto Mode Not Good Quality Pictures	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping foAuto Mode Picture Quality Nikon D3100 Film speed	problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photos.Auto Picture	I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode so it acts like a point and shoot.Auto Picture	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.Auto Point Firmware Point-and-shoot camera	Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes.Auto Setting	different pre-determined settings sports portrait landscape etcAuto Shoot Quality	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Auto-focus Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Nikon D3100 Film speed Point-and-shoot camera Digital zoom Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle Flash button	No autofocus when zooming while taking videoAuto-focus Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Nikon D3100 Film speed Point-and-shoot camera Digital zoom Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle Flash button	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Auto-focus Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Nikon D3100 Film speed Point-and-shoot camera Digital zoom Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle Flash button	 I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for. Auto-focus Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Nikon D3100 Film speed Point-and-shoot camera Digital zoom Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle Flash button	Well I have since done some research and participated in forums and found out there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.Auto-focus Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Nikon D3100 Film speed Point-and-shoot camera Digital zoom Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle Flash button	3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.Auto-focus Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Nikon D3100 Film speed Point-and-shoot camera Digital zoom Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle Flash button	D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photos.  You would expect Auto Modes to take easy great pictures in an entry level camera most people coming from point and shoot cameras.Auto-focus Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Nikon D3100 Film speed Point-and-shoot camera Digital zoom Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle Flash button	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasAuto-mode	the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Autofocus  Lens (optics) Shutter (photography) button Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera	auto focusAutofocus  Lens (optics) Shutter (photography) button Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera	No autofocusAutofocus  Lens (optics) Shutter (photography) button Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera	Very fast auto focus on shootingAutofocus  Lens (optics) Shutter (photography) button Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Autofocus  Lens (optics) Shutter (photography) button Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera	Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors.Autofocus  Lens (optics) Shutter (photography) button Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forAutofocus  Lens (optics) Shutter (photography) button Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the pictureAutofocus  Lens (optics) Shutter (photography) button Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Autofocus  Lens (optics) Shutter (photography) button Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. Autofocus  Lens (optics) Shutter (photography) button Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera	 Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasAutofocus Live preview Viewfinder Slow motion Focal length Shutter speed Canon (company) (photography) Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Camera Film Lens (optics) Manual focus button Digital zoom Focus Wide-angle Point-and-shoot camera Flash	Auto focus in  live view  modeAutofocus Live preview Viewfinder Slow motion Focal length Shutter speed Canon (company) (photography) Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Camera Film Lens (optics) Manual focus button Digital zoom Focus Wide-angle Point-and-shoot camera Flash	Very fast auto focus on shootiAutofocus Live preview Viewfinder Slow motion Focal length Shutter speed Canon (company) (photography) Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Camera Film Lens (optics) Manual focus button Digital zoom Focus Wide-angle Point-and-shoot camera Flash	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Slow motion Focal length Shutter speed Canon (company) (photography) Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Camera Film Lens (optics) Manual focus button Digital zoom Focus Wide-angle Point-and-shoot camera Flash	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Slow motion Focal length Shutter speed Canon (company) (photography) Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Camera Film Lens (optics) Manual focus button Digital zoom Focus Wide-angle Point-and-shoot camera Flash	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Slow motion Focal length Shutter speed Canon (company) (photography) Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Camera Film Lens (optics) Manual focus button Digital zoom Focus Wide-angle Point-and-shoot camera Flash	 Very fast auto focus on shooting.Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Slow motion Focal length Shutter speed Canon (company) (photography) Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Camera Film Lens (optics) Manual focus button Digital zoom Focus Wide-angle Point-and-shoot camera Flash	No autofocus when zooming while taking videoAutofocus Live preview Viewfinder Slow motion Focal length Shutter speed Canon (company) (photography) Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Camera Film Lens (optics) Manual focus button Digital zoom Focus Wide-angle Point-and-shoot camera Flash	No autofocus when zooming while taking videoAutofocus Live preview Viewfinder Slow motion Focal length Shutter speed Canon (company) (photography) Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Camera Film Lens (optics) Manual focus button Digital zoom Focus Wide-angle Point-and-shoot camera Flash	you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Slow motion Focal length Shutter speed Canon (company) (photography) Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Camera Film Lens (optics) Manual focus button Digital zoom Focus Wide-angle Point-and-shoot camera Flash	the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forAutofocus Live preview Viewfinder Slow motion Focal length Shutter speed Canon (company) (photography) Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Camera Film Lens (optics) Manual focus button Digital zoom Focus Wide-angle Point-and-shoot camera Flash	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic inputAutofocus Live preview Viewfinder Slow motion Focal length Shutter speed Canon (company) (photography) Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Camera Film Lens (optics) Manual focus button Digital zoom Focus Wide-angle Point-and-shoot camera Flash	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slowAutofocus Live preview Viewfinder Slow motion Focal length Shutter speed Canon (company) (photography) Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Camera Film Lens (optics) Manual focus button Digital zoom Focus Wide-angle Point-and-shoot camera Flash	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Slow motion Focal length Shutter speed Canon (company) (photography) Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Camera Film Lens (optics) Manual focus button Digital zoom Focus Wide-angle Point-and-shoot camera Flash	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Slow motion Focal length Shutter speed Canon (company) (photography) Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Camera Film Lens (optics) Manual focus button Digital zoom Focus Wide-angle Point-and-shoot camera Flash	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Slow motion Focal length Shutter speed Canon (company) (photography) Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Camera Film Lens (optics) Manual focus button Digital zoom Focus Wide-angle Point-and-shoot camera Flash	 No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Slow motion Focal length Shutter speed Canon (company) (photography) Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Camera Film Lens (optics) Manual focus button Digital zoom Focus Wide-angle Point-and-shoot camera Flash	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Slow motion Focal length Shutter speed Canon (company) (photography) Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Camera Film Lens (optics) Manual focus button Digital zoom Focus Wide-angle Point-and-shoot camera Flash	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Slow motion Focal length Shutter speed Canon (company) (photography) Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Camera Film Lens (optics) Manual focus button Digital zoom Focus Wide-angle Point-and-shoot camera Flash	wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasAutofocus Live preview Viewfinder Slow motion Focal length Shutter speed Canon (company) (photography) Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Camera Film Lens (optics) Manual focus button Digital zoom Focus Wide-angle Point-and-shoot camera Flash	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Slow motion Focal length Shutter speed Canon (company) (photography) Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Camera Film Lens (optics) Manual focus button Digital zoom Focus Wide-angle Point-and-shoot camera Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasAutofocus Live preview Viewfinder Slow motion Focal length Shutter speed Canon (company) (photography) Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Camera Film Lens (optics) Manual focus button Digital zoom Focus Wide-angle Point-and-shoot camera Flash	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.Autofocus SLOW Live preview	Auto focus in  live view  mode Autofocus When Zooming Shutter (photography) button	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Autofocus/low Light Autofocus	no low light auto focusAutofocus/zoom Autofocus Digital zoom	No autofocus when zooming while taking videoAutomatic Built In Flash	Built-in flash is not so greaAutomode And Point	not in the auto point and shoot modes.Automode Nikon D3100 1080p DV	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  TAutomode Nikon D3100 1080p DV	I took some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very good. Also i loved the guide mode when in doubt use guide. The best part was the 1080P video. I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good and my wife who is very difficult to please liked it so much that she said that next time we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100  I guess now i can finally retire my mini DV video camera.Automodes	Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto modeAutomodes	 I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flashAV Mode Focal length Shutter speed Canon (company) Camera (photography) Zoom lens Film	No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.AV Mode Focal length Shutter speed Canon (company) Camera (photography) Zoom lens Film	No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.Awesome Camera	5.0 out of 5 stars Babies Sitting On Hard Plastic	So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.Baby Can See Out Windows	look out of the windows at the world around herBaby Comfort Infant car seat	 seat cover became scratchy.Baby Comfort Infant car seat	 serious lack of adequate padding.Baby Comfort Infant car seat	comes with head/neck support cushionBaby Comfort Infant car seat	excellent padding and very nice soft fabricBaby Comfort Infant car seat	 seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature Baby Comfort Infant car seat	y child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure. Baby Comfort Infant car seat	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we broughtBaby Comfort Infant car seat	 sure this is safe enough but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient. Baby Comfort Infant car seat	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Baby Proofing	  Also my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly.  It isnt hard to get back on and it is nice that it pops off so it can go on either side but it is annoying when he gets it off and starts throwing it around.Baby Shower Gift Option	Baby Shower giftBackward Facing	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards. They would have rested on the middle seats.  Other than that it is an awesome seatBackward Facing	My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing. Between my 3 kids Ive been through about 6 different convertible car seats in the past 8 years and this one was by far the most difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt.Bad Color balance Live preview Autofocus Focal length Canon (company) Shutter speed Viewfinder (photography) Camera Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film	ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Bad GRID Fuctions	My only issue with the T3i concerns the GRID functions.Bad Nikon Warranty	 pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better thanBase	you cannot tell if the car seat is level.Base	 It is side crash tested and the base is adjustableBase	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra baseBase	They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that baseBase	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level.Base	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Battery Charge Portrait photography Macrophotography Camera Photography	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everydayBattery Charge Portrait photography Macrophotography Camera Photography	This camera is very tight on power consumption and has extreme accuracy when you set it for pinpoint focusing as I do for model and portrait photography work. The macro features are also on par with its more advanced and WAY higher priced big brothers to this camera. Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	Battery lifeBattery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	attery life is not too great.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	Battery life is not too greatBattery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	Battery life is not too greatBattery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	Battery life is not too greatBattery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	Battery life is not too greatBattery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	Battery life is not too great.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	Battery life is not too great.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	 Battery life is not too great.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	. Battery life is not too greatBattery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	Battery life is not too great. Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	 Battery life is not too great. Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	Battery life seems to be very goodBattery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	Battery life seems to be very goodBattery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	Battery life seems to be very goodBattery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	Battery life seems to be very good Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	Battery life seems to be very good - longer Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	 Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	 Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	 Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everydayBattery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. TBattery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	y used point and shoot cameras in the past and have always had fun taking pictures.  I wanted to start digital photography as a hobbBattery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	This camera is very tight on power consumption and has extreme accuracy when you set it for pinpoint focusing as I do for model and portrait photography work.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital CamerasBattery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	 Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	 Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	 Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger with a swing-out plug.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	As a first time Digital SLR buyer and user I love this camera and would highly recommend it to others.  We took about 300 pictures at a Thanksgiving get together and a few other people tried the camera out and were impressed as well.Battery Digital single-lens reflex camera Single-lens Eastman Kodak Nikon photography Camera Point-and-shoot Photography D3000 (electricity) D3100 Portrait UV filter Rechargeable battery	This is my first time buying a Digital SLR.  I have mainly used point and shoot cameras in the past and have always had fun taking pictures.  I wanted to start digital photography as a hobby so I decided to buy a nicer camera.  After reading many reviews and comparisons I decided on this camera as it is the update to the Nikon D3000 that a friend of mine has.  They love their camera so I figured this was a good choice.  Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode so it acts like a point and shoot.  Compared to my Kodak point and shoot the pictures are great.  I love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy.  It looks like it should be but does not feel like it is.  It appears to be a very sturdy camera.Battery Life  UV filter	Other Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Battery Life Is Bad	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.Battery Life Long (electricity) Rechargeable battery APS-C	 Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger with a swing-out plug.  This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.Battery Life Rechargeable battery Digital camera (electricity) Nikon D3100 APS-C Camera lens Autofocus Single-lens reflex Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion Computer monitor	Battery lifeBattery Life Rechargeable battery Digital camera (electricity) Nikon D3100 APS-C Camera lens Autofocus Single-lens reflex Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion Computer monitor	Battery lifeBattery Life Rechargeable battery Digital camera (electricity) Nikon D3100 APS-C Camera lens Autofocus Single-lens reflex Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion Computer monitor	Battery life Battery Life Rechargeable battery Digital camera (electricity) Nikon D3100 APS-C Camera lens Autofocus Single-lens reflex Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion Computer monitor	Battery life is not too greatBattery Life Rechargeable battery Digital camera (electricity) Nikon D3100 APS-C Camera lens Autofocus Single-lens reflex Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion Computer monitor	Battery life is not too greatBattery Life Rechargeable battery Digital camera (electricity) Nikon D3100 APS-C Camera lens Autofocus Single-lens reflex Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion Computer monitor	Battery life is not too greatBattery Life Rechargeable battery Digital camera (electricity) Nikon D3100 APS-C Camera lens Autofocus Single-lens reflex Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion Computer monitor	Battery life is not too greatBattery Life Rechargeable battery Digital camera (electricity) Nikon D3100 APS-C Camera lens Autofocus Single-lens reflex Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion Computer monitor	 Battery life is not too greatBattery Life Rechargeable battery Digital camera (electricity) Nikon D3100 APS-C Camera lens Autofocus Single-lens reflex Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion Computer monitor	Battery life is not too great.Battery Life Rechargeable battery Digital camera (electricity) Nikon D3100 APS-C Camera lens Autofocus Single-lens reflex Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion Computer monitor	Battery life is not too great.Battery Life Rechargeable battery Digital camera (electricity) Nikon D3100 APS-C Camera lens Autofocus Single-lens reflex Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion Computer monitor	 Battery life is not too great. IBattery Life Rechargeable battery Digital camera (electricity) Nikon D3100 APS-C Camera lens Autofocus Single-lens reflex Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion Computer monitor	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expectedBattery Life Rechargeable battery Digital camera (electricity) Nikon D3100 APS-C Camera lens Autofocus Single-lens reflex Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion Computer monitor	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expectedBattery Life Rechargeable battery Digital camera (electricity) Nikon D3100 APS-C Camera lens Autofocus Single-lens reflex Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion Computer monitor	 Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everydayBattery Life Rechargeable battery Digital camera (electricity) Nikon D3100 APS-C Camera lens Autofocus Single-lens reflex Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion Computer monitor	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.Battery Life Rechargeable battery Digital camera (electricity) Nikon D3100 APS-C Camera lens Autofocus Single-lens reflex Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion Computer monitor	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday.Battery Life Rechargeable battery Digital camera (electricity) Nikon D3100 APS-C Camera lens Autofocus Single-lens reflex Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion Computer monitor	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.Battery Life Rechargeable battery Digital camera (electricity) Nikon D3100 APS-C Camera lens Autofocus Single-lens reflex Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion Computer monitor	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.Battery Life Rechargeable battery Digital camera (electricity) Nikon D3100 APS-C Camera lens Autofocus Single-lens reflex Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion Computer monitor	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.Battery Life Rechargeable battery Digital camera (electricity) Nikon D3100 APS-C Camera lens Autofocus Single-lens reflex Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion Computer monitor	 Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to someBattery Life Rechargeable battery Digital camera (electricity) Nikon D3100 APS-C Camera lens Autofocus Single-lens reflex Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion Computer monitor	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger wiBattery Life Rechargeable battery Digital camera (electricity) Nikon D3100 APS-C Camera lens Autofocus Single-lens reflex Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion Computer monitor	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital CamerasBattery Life Rechargeable battery Digital camera (electricity) Nikon D3100 APS-C Camera lens Autofocus Single-lens reflex Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion Computer monitor	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Battery Life Rechargeable battery Digital camera (electricity) Nikon D3100 APS-C Camera lens Autofocus Single-lens reflex Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion Computer monitor	Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Battery Life Rechargeable battery Digital camera (electricity) Nikon D3100 APS-C Camera lens Autofocus Single-lens reflex Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion Computer monitor	 Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Battery Life Rechargeable battery Digital camera (electricity) Nikon D3100 APS-C Camera lens Autofocus Single-lens reflex Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion Computer monitor	 Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Battery Life Rechargeable battery Digital camera (electricity) Nikon D3100 APS-C Camera lens Autofocus Single-lens reflex Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion Computer monitor	. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Battery Life Rechargeable battery Digital camera (electricity) Nikon D3100 APS-C Camera lens Autofocus Single-lens reflex Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion Computer monitor	4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Battery Life Rechargeable battery Digital camera (electricity) Nikon D3100 APS-C Camera lens Autofocus Single-lens reflex Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion Computer monitor	4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Battery Life Rechargeable battery Digital camera (electricity) Nikon D3100 APS-C Camera lens Autofocus Single-lens reflex Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion Computer monitor	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger with a swing-out plug.Battery Life Rechargeable battery Digital camera (electricity) Nikon D3100 APS-C Camera lens Autofocus Single-lens reflex Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion Computer monitor	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger with a swing-out plug.Battery Life Rechargeable battery Digital camera (electricity) Nikon D3100 APS-C Camera lens Autofocus Single-lens reflex Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion Computer monitor	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger with a swing-out plug.  This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.Battery Life Rechargeable battery Digital camera (electricity) Nikon D3100 APS-C Camera lens Autofocus Single-lens reflex Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion Computer monitor	3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.OverBattery Life Rechargeable battery Digital camera (electricity) Nikon D3100 APS-C Camera lens Autofocus Single-lens reflex Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion Computer monitor	Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital CamerasBattery Life Low Resolution  LCD Screen Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100 	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Beginner DSLR	great starter cameraBeginner Experience Point-and-shoot camera Camera Canon EOS 60D Digital single-lens reflex	  It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLRBeginner Experience Point-and-shoot camera Camera Canon EOS 60D Digital single-lens reflex	For a begginer in the professional photography area I definetly see an ocean of difference between the t2i and point and shoot cameras.Beginner Experience Point-and-shoot camera Camera Canon EOS 60D Digital single-lens reflex	Being a beginner in photographyi took much time to decide on models between T2iT3i and 60D. Atlast i bought T3i and i am very much satisfied with the productBeginner Friendly Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Usability User (computing) photography Point-and-shoot Camera Nikon D3000	Excellent Beginners DSLRBeginner Friendly Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Usability User (computing) photography Point-and-shoot Camera Nikon D3000	not a professional level SLRBeginner Friendly Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Usability User (computing) photography Point-and-shoot Camera Nikon D3000	as a first time user I am happyBeginner Friendly Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Usability User (computing) photography Point-and-shoot Camera Nikon D3000	want to move from film to digitalBeginner Friendly Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Usability User (computing) photography Point-and-shoot Camera Nikon D3000	The camera itself is very user friendlyBeginner Friendly Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Usability User (computing) photography Point-and-shoot Camera Nikon D3000	Its my first digital SLR Ive had it for about a year and I love it.Beginner Friendly Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Usability User (computing) photography Point-and-shoot Camera Nikon D3000	Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price Beginner Friendly Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Usability User (computing) photography Point-and-shoot Camera Nikon D3000	The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not. I am a person to read through and learn the various features the camera has to offer.Beginner Friendly Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Usability User (computing) photography Point-and-shoot Camera Nikon D3000	 I have had it for a few months now and I get alot of great compliments on my pictures they are professional looking my family and friends say and these are just on the automatic setting LOL wait until I read more and experimentBeginner Friendly Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Usability User (computing) photography Point-and-shoot Camera Nikon D3000	I wanted to start digital photography as a hobby so I decided to buy a nicer camera.  After reading many reviews and comparisons I decided on this camera as it is the update to the Nikon D3000 that a friend of mine has.  They love their camera so I figured this was a good choiceBeginner Friendly Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Usability User (computing) photography Point-and-shoot Camera Nikon D3000	 For a begginer in the professional photography area I definetly see an ocean of difference between the t2i and point and shoot cameras. Picture quality on this t2i is stunning so many features that it will take me months to figure out how to really get the most out of this camera.Beginner Point-and-shoot camera Camera Digital single-lens reflex Nikon D3100	Its my first digital SLRBeginner Point-and-shoot camera Camera Digital single-lens reflex Nikon D3100	  For the money the D3100 cant be beat.Beginner Point-and-shoot camera Camera Digital single-lens reflex Nikon D3100	  i would recommend this to anybody i know who is into DSLR. NIKON  way to go  Beginner Point-and-shoot camera Camera Digital single-lens reflex Nikon D3100	This body is rock solid and worthy of purchase for ANY and ALL people entering or needing an advanced DSLR camera.Beginner Point-and-shoot camera Camera Digital single-lens reflex Nikon D3100	As a first time Digital SLR buyer and user I love this camera and would highly recommend it to others.  We took about 300 pictures at a Thanksgiving get together and a few other people tried the camera out and were impressed as well.Beginner Point-and-shoot camera Camera Digital single-lens reflex Nikon D3100	I will not go into extended technical aspects as I am person that is making a transition from an old point and shoot to this DLSR. Camera is just amazing. For a begginer in the professional photography area I definetly see an ocean of difference between the t2i and point and shoot cameras.Beginner's Lens Digital single-lens reflex camera (optics)	 Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lensesBeginner's Toy Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners	Excellent Beginners DSLRBeginners Newbie	Highly recommended to other newbies whBeing User Friendly Usability (computing)	user friendly whether you have read the manual or notBest Balance For Wedding Pictures photography	 decided that this model offered me the best balance. I also kept in mind that I have a very specific use for it which is wedding photography and on dark veBest Bang For Your Buck Lola language	my best friend. I chose the t2i over t3i because I didnt feel I would need to use the movable lcd screen and couldnt justify spending that much money on it. If you are condsidering the t3i go ahead and get theBetter Than Britax Child safety seat	Britax Advocate I feel like you get what you pay for I was told about this car seat and figured I would give it a try.Big Car Seat	 big car seatBig Space Toddler	Big enough for a toddlerBody Comparison With Canon T2i	The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Body Lightweight Digital single-lens reflex camera Shutter lag 135 film Battery charger APS-C Camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Single-lens D3100	Relatively lightBody Lightweight Digital single-lens reflex camera Shutter lag 135 film Battery charger APS-C Camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Single-lens D3100	Somewhat Compact sizeBody Lightweight Digital single-lens reflex camera Shutter lag 135 film Battery charger APS-C Camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Single-lens D3100	basically a 7D in a crop bodyBody Lightweight Digital single-lens reflex camera Shutter lag 135 film Battery charger APS-C Camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Single-lens D3100	 body is rock solid and worthy Body Lightweight Digital single-lens reflex camera Shutter lag 135 film Battery charger APS-C Camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Single-lens D3100	 Light weight great body design.Body Lightweight Digital single-lens reflex camera Shutter lag 135 film Battery charger APS-C Camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Single-lens D3100	Pair it with the lens of your choiceBody Lightweight Digital single-lens reflex camera Shutter lag 135 film Battery charger APS-C Camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Single-lens D3100	Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.Body Lightweight Digital single-lens reflex camera Shutter lag 135 film Battery charger APS-C Camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Single-lens D3100	This body is rock solid and worthy of purchase for ANY and ALL people entering or needing an advanced DSLR camera.Body Lightweight Digital single-lens reflex camera Shutter lag 135 film Battery charger APS-C Camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Single-lens D3100	  The view finder is very clear and has all basic settings info on the bottom border.  The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRs. Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger with a swing-out plug.  This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.Body Lightweight Digital single-lens reflex camera Shutter lag 135 film Battery charger APS-C Camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Single-lens D3100	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Body Lightweight Digital single-lens reflex camera Shutter lag 135 film Battery charger APS-C Camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Single-lens D3100	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Brand	. Definitely worth doing business with companiesBreathable	black fabric in Texas summers Breathable	This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperatureBritax Car Seats Child safety seat	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much .Buckle	 the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well.Bugs	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Build Of The Camera Is Good	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing theBuild Quality Asymptotic giant branch	ut I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.Build Quality Asymptotic giant branch	. Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all dayBuild Use forms of explosives	The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.Build Use forms of explosives	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Build Use forms of explosives	Additionally with the side impact shaping its a very tight space to use the light blue head rests shown in the listing picture.  I havent tested it out yet but just from the appearance I can tell its not going to work.Built In Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle	uilt-in flash is not so greaBuilt In Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle	Built-in flash is not so greatBuilt In Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle	Built-in flash is not so greatBuilt In Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle	Built-in flash is not so great. AlBuilt In Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle	hen taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shadeBuilt In Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Built In Flash Sucks Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Point-and-shoot camera Camera button	Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasBuilt In Focus Motor Autofocus	built-in focus motor.Built-in Falsh	Built-in flash is not so great.Built-in Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Canon (company)	Built-in flashBuilt-in Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Canon (company)	Built-in flash is not so greatBuilt-in Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Canon (company)	Built-in flash is not so greatBuilt-in Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Canon (company)	Built-in flash is not so greatBuilt-in Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Canon (company)	Built-in flash is not so greatBuilt-in Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Canon (company)	Built-in flash is not so greatBuilt-in Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Canon (company)	 Built-in flash is not so greatBuilt-in Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Canon (company)	Built-in flash is not so great.Built-in Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Canon (company)	Built-in flash is not so great.Built-in Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Canon (company)	Built-in flash is not so great. Built-in Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Canon (company)	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shadeBuilt-in Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Canon (company)	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shadeBuilt-in Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Canon (company)	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Built-in Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Canon (company)	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Built-in Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Canon (company)	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Built-in Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Canon (company)	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Built-in Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Canon (company)	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Built-in Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Canon (company)	I upgraded from a Canon 20D to this specific model after several hours of navigating product reviews and I dont regret it the other contenders were the T3i and T3 close  range and after careful though on ISO performance MPs price and features I decided that this model offered me the best balance. I also kept in mind that I have a very specific use for it which is wedding photographyBulk Toddler	Very bulkyBulk Toddler	Very bulkyBulk Toddler	dont mind the bulk.Bulk Toddler	he seat is gigantic.Bulk Toddler	seat seems to breatheBulk Toddler	afety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Bulky Minivan Van Bench seat Odyssey	giganticBulky Minivan Van Bench seat Odyssey	Very bulkyBulky Minivan Van Bench seat Odyssey	Very bulkyBulky Minivan Van Bench seat Odyssey	Very bulky.Bulky Minivan Van Bench seat Odyssey	big car seatBulky Minivan Van Bench seat Odyssey	Very bulky. Bulky Minivan Van Bench seat Odyssey	seat is gigantic.  Bulky Minivan Van Bench seat Odyssey	 it is a big car seatBulky Minivan Van Bench seat Odyssey	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwardsBulky Minivan Van Bench seat Odyssey	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Bulky Minivan Van Bench seat Odyssey	We love these carseats.  It is a big seat especially rear facing.  We have a Sienna mini van and we had them both on the bench seat.  Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards. They would have rested on the middle seats.  Other than that it is an awesome seat.  It holds the girls very secure and they love them.  They were pretty easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats. Other than the issues in rear facing position this is a terrific seat.Burst Mode	The T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to.Burst Rate mode (photography)	3.7 max burst rateBurst Rate mode (photography)	3.7 max burst rateBurst Rate mode (photography)	3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allButtons Digital single-lens reflex camera	T2i is FASTButtons Digital single-lens reflex camera	Very fast autoButtons Digital single-lens reflex camera	Entry Level DSLRButtons Digital single-lens reflex camera	uttons are spread evenlyBuying Extras For The Camera Memory card Computer data storage	 I would recommend to get a high speed memory card. The pictures at full 18MP take a lot of memory. Better get some means of decent storage space 750-1TB hardrive will doC	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well. Overall a very nice car seat for the price.Cable HDMI	Disappointed they offer HDMI input but dont provided the cableCamera Body Kit lens Headache	ave yourself the headache of working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body.  Pair it with the lens of your choiceCamera Feels Solid And Good Grip Use forms of explosives	The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.Camera Performance Walkaround	make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body cameraCamera Structure Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	flip out LCD screenCamera's Auto Focus Autofocus Long-exposure photography	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingCamparison To Buffer Speed Of T21 Keep	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhyCan Focus Yourself	As soon as you move up to manual for full controlCan Only Hold Up To 50 Lbs	The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Cant Put Behind Drivers Seat	 have been using the graco snug ride 30 metropolis for 2 months now. So far I am only satisfied with this car seat.pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.  light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.I think I would purchase this car seat again if they changed the visor and made the new base available.Capacity	The seat holds a child up to 65lbsCapacity	The seat holds a child up to 65lbsCapacity	its a very tight space to use the light blue head restsCar Fits	 fit really well in all carsCar Fits	fit well in both of our carsCar Seat	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Carrying Around For A Long Time	Battery lifeCatches Stuff Under The Seat	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingChair Is Excellent Quality	 chair is excellent quality.Change Lens	kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lensesChange Size	recline it at 3 different levels.Changing Settings Maunally Owner's manual Shutter (photography) button Button	 The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual modeCheap	  It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.Cheap Material	t cover is made of a material whereChild Comfort Headrest Britax safety seat	my son LOVES it Child Comfort Headrest Britax safety seat	its very comfortableChild Comfort Headrest Britax safety seat	My child is so comfortableChild Comfort Headrest Britax safety seat	My child is so comfortableChild Comfort Headrest Britax safety seat	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortableChild Comfort Headrest Britax safety seat	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Child Comfort Headrest Britax safety seat	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Child Comfort Headrest Britax safety seat	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Child Comfort Headrest Britax safety seat	I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.Child Comfort Headrest Britax safety seat	there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.Child Comfort Headrest Britax safety seat	he biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Child Comfort Headrest Britax safety seat	After extensive research and practically being settled on the Britax Advocate I feel like you get what you pay for I was told about this car seat and figured I would give it a try.  Worse case I would just use it in my husbands car and then order the Britax for my car.  No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it Child Comfort Level Baby Shower Infant car seat	We asked for this as a Baby Shower gift back in 2010 when my daughter was born. Started to use it in Feb of this year my daughter is on the small side so she just outgrew the infant seat and LOVE IT  Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Child Comfortable Infant car seat	He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all hereChild Fusses Less Infant car seat	his seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.  I am going to order another one of these for my husbands car.  It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Clean Headrest Vomiting	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingClean Headrest Vomiting	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come offClean Headrest Vomiting	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skinClean Headrest Vomiting	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Clean Headrest Vomiting	All that to say - I still love a lot of things about this carseat but I do NOT love cleaning it.Clean Headrest Vomiting	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easilyClean Headrest Vomiting	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   Clean Headrest Vomiting	  So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.  Im having quite an interesting time getting the nasty puke smell out of it.Clean Headrest Vomiting	  My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.Cleanable	but I do NOT love cleaning itCleanable	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skinCleanable	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily Cleanable	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily Cleaning Comfortable	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skinCleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	easy to clean Cleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	do not clean easilyCleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	do not clean easilyCleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	do not clean easily Cleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	NOT love cleaning it.Cleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	o not clean easily   Cleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	Material is easy to cleanCleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	Material is easy to clean Cleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	needs to be cleaned by handCleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	but I do NOT love cleaning itCleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	material is easy to take off and machine washCleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come offCleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come offCleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come offCleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come offCleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	material is easy to take off and machine wash Cleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come offCleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Cleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	All that to say - I still love a lot of things about this carseat but I do NOT love cleaning it.Cleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	All that to say - I still love a lot of things about this carseat but I do NOT love cleaning it.Cleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by handCleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.Cleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.Cleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easilyCleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easilyCleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily Cleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily Cleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily Cleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come offCleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.Cleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.Cleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.Cleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.  Thats not so bad since she did not puke on that part except that I was not aware that the headrest pad is attached to another pad that continues down the back behind the main pad   So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.  Im having quite an interesting time getting the nasty puke smell out of it.Cleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.  Thats not so bad since she did not puke on that part except that I was not aware that the headrest pad is attached to another pad that continues down the back behind the main pad   So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.  Im having quite an interesting time getting the nasty puke smell out of it.Cleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.  Thats not so bad since she did not puke on that part except that I was not aware that the headrest pad is attached to another pad that continues down the back behind the main pad   So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.  Im having quite an interesting time getting the nasty puke smell out of it.All that to say - I still love a lot of things about this carseat but I do NOT love cleaning it.Cleaning Headrest Minivan Odyssey	Some of the reviews complain that the Air  wings  cause problems for the kid seeing out but their height is adjustable AND I really like that when my daughter falls asleep they hold her head up so its not bobbing all over the place.The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.  Thats not so bad since she did not puke on that part except that I was not aware that the headrest pad is attached to another pad that continues down the back behind the main pad   So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.  Im having quite an interesting time getting the nasty puke smell out of it.All that to say - I still love a lot of things about this carseat but I do NOT love cleaning it.Cleaning The Seat	The material is easy to take off and machine washCleanliness	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCleanliness	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.  Thats not so bad since she did not puke on that part except that I was not aware that the headrest pad is attached to another pad that continues down the back behind the main pad   So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.  Im having quite an interesting time getting the nasty puke smell out of it.Cleanliness & Convenience	the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by handCo	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it.Color	I also dont like some of the colors but that is personal preference.Color	I also dont like some of the colors but that is personal preference.Colors	  Loved the colors as wellColors	I also dont like some of the colors but that is personal preferenceCom	I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit.  It is so high in fact that my 3 1/2 year old would still be able to be rear facing in this seatComf	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Comfort	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her.Comfort - Breathability	This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped inComfort - Heat	May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.Comfort - Material Velcro Shoe	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I Comfort - Material Velcro Shoe	It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Comfort - Material Velcro Shoe	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Comfort - Padding	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingComfort - Space	she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Comfort - Space	I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat.Comfort - Space	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.  Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my sonComfort - Wings	He seemed very comfortable in it and I liked that the extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.Comfort & Safety	very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy dutyComfort And Ease Of Install	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Comfort And Installation	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsComfort And Safety	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Comfort And Safety	Normally he literally fights and struggles when it is time to get into the the car but not this time. I love this chair  My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secureComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	paddedComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	sun visorComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	NO paddingComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	comfortableComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	comfortableComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	comfortablyComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	son LOVES itComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	comfert for herComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	my son LOVES itComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	my son LOVES itComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	fits comfortablyComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	very comfortableComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	very comfortableComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	very comfortableComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	very comfortableComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	 provides comfertComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	very comfortable Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	fit fine and snug Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	its very comfortableComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	 its very comfortableComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	comfortable for my sonComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	comfortable for my son.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Big enough for a toddlerComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	head/neck support cushionComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	provides comfert for her.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	provides comfert for her.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	He seemed very comfortableComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	head/neck support cushion.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Install was exteremly easyComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My child is so comfortableComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My child is so comfortableComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My child is so comfortableComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	seat cover became scratchyComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	 My child is so comfortableComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My child is so comfortable Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My child is so comfortable Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My child is so comfortable Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My child is so comfortable Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	a more toddler friendly seatComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	comfortable on my babys skinComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	comfortable on my babys skinComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	comfortable on my babys skin.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My son fits comfortably in itComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	It fit fine and snug as can beComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My son fits comfortably in it Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	there is absolutely NO paddingComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	there is absolutely NO paddingComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	extra cushion that came with itComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	For ease of use IQ form factor Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	recline it at 3 different levelComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	He still falls asleep with ease.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	He seemed very comfortable in it Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Not much padding in the seat partComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	This will even work for newborns.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	well constructed and pretty comfyComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	well constructed and pretty comfyComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	very comfortable for a little babyComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	very comfortable for a little babyComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	very comfortable for a little babyComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	very comfortable for a little babyComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	very comfortable for a little babyComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	very comfortable for a little babyComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	very comfortable for a little babyComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	nice fabric thats soft to the touchComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	nice fabric thats soft to the touchComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Not much padding in the seat part..Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	comes with head/neck support cushionComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	It appears to be a very sturdy camera.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	seat seams padded well and comfortableComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	comfortable and appears to be very safeComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	o much room verses his carrier car seatComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	padded well and comfortable for my son.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	ou can recline it at 3 different levels.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	very nice fabric thats soft to the touchComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	excellent padding and very nice soft fabricComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	excellent padding and very nice soft fabricComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	excellent padding and very nice soft fabricComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	excellent padding and very nice soft fabricComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	 Fit my newborns head with the extra cushionComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	breathe so she remains a comfortable temperatureComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic. Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	 its very comfortable and appears to be very safeComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	 material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable forComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plasticComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plasticComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	 its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much roomComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much roomComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	 its very comfortable and appears to be very safe. Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	regretting the black fabric in Texas summers thoughComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	 May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summersComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	first one to have a serious lack of adequate paddingComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	he seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my sonComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touchComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	protects my little girl and it provides comfert for herComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	its a very tight space to use the light blue head rests Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room versesComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for herComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large tComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	 likes being in the seat and able to look out of the windows Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Fit my newborns head with the extra cushion that came with it.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfyComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to himComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	 The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all hereComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all hereComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all hereComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secureComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secureComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secureComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seatComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyesComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seatComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levelsComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped inComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped in.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	  This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped in.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	shoots great in low lighting settings. all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels natural. Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEATComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Normally he literally fights and struggles when it is time to get into the the car but not this time.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	 My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	 My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	 My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	 My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windowsComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	 be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	 My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thicknessComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	 Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.  I love the no rethread harnessComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	eat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRsComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfyComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfyComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	 I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.  Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	  Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars. Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skinComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars. Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	The seat was comfortable looking and big enough rear facing all the way until two years old which is what the apa recommends.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all hereComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	He seemed very comfortable in it and I liked that the extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	He seemed very comfortable in it and I liked that the extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	It fit fine and snug as can be. What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small. Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	He seemed very comfortable in it and I liked that the extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.  I love the noComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do. Again my little girl likes being in the seat and able to look out of the windows at the world around her.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seatComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	 Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seatComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	 this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyesComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.  Ive felt a lot of other car seats out there that feel like theyd be pretty hard to sit on and uncomfortable.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.  Ive felt a lot of other car seats out there that feel like theyd be pretty hard to sit on and uncomfortable.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.  Ive felt a lot of other car seats out there that feel like theyd be pretty hard to sit on and uncomfortable.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	I absolutely love this car seat. It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra. As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyesComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit.  It is so high in fact that my 3 1/2 year old would still be able to be rear facing in this seatComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing. My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Overall were really happy with this car seat.  It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Normally he literally fights and struggles when it is time to get into the the car but not this time. I love this chair  My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.  Some seats seemed too bulky and I know my daughter would be a sweaty mess in those styles.  This seat seems to breathe so she remainsComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.  Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Even though my son isnt quiet 1 yet he was ready for a more toddler friendly seat. This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him. I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Even though my son isnt quiet 1 yet he was ready for a more toddler friendly seat. This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him. I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	 the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. I highly recommend this it item.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. I highly recommend this it item.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	raco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	 But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing. My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing. My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions. Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	. Even though my son isnt quiet 1 yet he was ready for a more toddler friendly seat. This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him. I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	 absolutely love this car seat. It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. I highly recommend this it item.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	his car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well. Overall a very nice car seat for the priceComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	  He seemed very comfortable in it and I liked that the extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.  I love the no rethread harness and although it took me a bit to figure out how to work it it is still fairly simple and much preferrable over the rethread type.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinkingComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well. Overall a very nice car seat for the price.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well. Overall a very nice car seat for the price.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.  I am going to order another one of these for my husbands car.  It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.  Some seats seemed too bulky and I know my daughter would be a sweaty mess in those styles.  This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped in.  The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well. Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	my 2 year old became giddy with excitement. Normally he literally fights and struggles when it is time to get into the the car but not this time. I love this chair  My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure. I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. TheComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it. Im just thinking how happy she will be when she gets turned around in a few months. This will even work for newborns. if I had known that I would have gotten this a long time ago.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	After purchasing this seat we took it for a test drive literally with the baby in it.  He seemed very comfortable in it and I liked that the extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.  I love the no rethread harness and although it took me a bit to figure out how to work it it is still fairly simple and much preferrable over the rethread type.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on itComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much . But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing. My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions. I have a 2003 Maxima which has a slight bump in the middleComfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	This is a great car seat. I did a lot of research on safety price etc. before buying this one.  I actually bought two one for my car and one for my husbands car.  We were very pleased with it.  Both were delivered super fast and in perfect condition.  Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars. Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. All I can say is this was a great purchase for our family.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Im glad we had the Chicco Keyfit 30 when our guy was an infant. Im sure this is safe enough but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient. Even though my son isnt quiet 1 yet he was ready for a more toddler friendly seat. This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him. I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.Comfort Infant Toddler Nissan Sentra car seat Child safety Sun visor Visor Velcro Shoe SEAT Usability Britax Belching Car Headrest Chicco	Love this car seat   After extensive research and practically being settled on the Britax Advocate I feel like you get what you pay for I was told about this car seat and figured I would give it a try.  Worse case I would just use it in my husbands car and then order the Britax for my car.  No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.  I am going to order another one of these for my husbands car.  It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Comfort Of Child	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Comfort Of Child And Parent Infant car seat	this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.Comfort Safety	its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.Comfort Safety	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Comfort/Safety SEAT Velcro Headrest	This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touchComfort/Safety SEAT Velcro Headrest	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Comfort/Safety SEAT Velcro Headrest	she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves itComfort/Safety SEAT Velcro Headrest	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Comfort/Safety SEAT Velcro Headrest	Ive purchased SnugRides in the past but this is the first one to have a serious lack of adequate padding.  Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEATComfort/Safety SEAT Velcro Headrest	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of chargeComfort/Safety SEAT Velcro Headrest	he biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Comfortability	seemed very comfortableComfortability	comfortable on my babys skinComfortability	The seat was comfortable lookingComfortability	very nice fabric thats soft to the touchComfortability	excellent padding and very nice soft fabricComfortability	 very comfortable and appears to be very safeComfortability	where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingComfortability	protects my little girl and it provides comfert for herComfortability	Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my sonComfortability	material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyComfortability	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secureComfortable And Safe	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levelsComfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	comfertComfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	 roomierComfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	ComfortableComfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	 comfortableComfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	comfortable Comfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	so much roomComfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	 so comfortableComfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	fits comfortablyComfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	5.0 out of 5 stars Comfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	well constructed and pretty comfyComfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	very comfortable for a little babyComfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	 True Fit convertable car seat is amazingComfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerComfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Comfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	 its very comfortable and appears to be very safeComfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.Comfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	 soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyComfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my sonComfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	 it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Comfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	 it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Comfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin.Comfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	 Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin.Comfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Comfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Comfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Comfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. Comfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	 My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Comfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Comfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfyComfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy. Comfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	 trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base.Comfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	Normally he literally fights and struggles when it is time to get into the the car but not this time. I love this chair  My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Comfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him. I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.Comfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	 it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it. Im just thinking how happy she will be when she gets turned around in a few months. This will even work for newborns. if I had known that I would have gotten this a long time ago.Comfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Comfortable Child safety seat Infant Toddler Shoulder pads (fashion) Car	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.  Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.  I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.  Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my sonComfortable Texture	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyComfortable Usage Lightweight	felt good in my handComfortable Usage Lightweight	Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.Comfortness	comfortableComfortness	son fits comfortably in it and has so much roomComfortness	material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyCompactability Digital single-lens reflex camera Shutter lag 135 film	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Company Customer Service Suede Plush	new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of chargeCompany Sent Woman New Cover Free	sent me a new cover Compared To Other Cameras Point-and-shoot camera Camera	For a begginer in the professional photography area I definetly see an ocean of difference between the t2i and point and shoot cameras.Comparing Another Nodel On Board (film)	bought this seat for my son who is now 8 months old.  I got it because I already have the Safety 1st Air Protect On Board 35 SE Infant Car Seat which I love. Comparison Nikon D3100 Canon EOS (company) Keep 1080p Inch Digital single-lens reflex camera D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor D5000 stabilization Color balance Live preview Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder (photography) Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraComparison Nikon D3100 Canon EOS (company) Keep 1080p Inch Digital single-lens reflex camera D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor D5000 stabilization Color balance Live preview Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder (photography) Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	Ive compared Canon EOS t2i with Nikon D3100 and finally I picked D3100.Comparison Nikon D3100 Canon EOS (company) Keep 1080p Inch Digital single-lens reflex camera D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor D5000 stabilization Color balance Live preview Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder (photography) Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	according to the experts there is really not much difference betrween t2i and the t3iComparison Nikon D3100 Canon EOS (company) Keep 1080p Inch Digital single-lens reflex camera D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor D5000 stabilization Color balance Live preview Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder (photography) Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	Since I have switched from Nikon to Canon a lot of my review is based on comparison to Nikon.Comparison Nikon D3100 Canon EOS (company) Keep 1080p Inch Digital single-lens reflex camera D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor D5000 stabilization Color balance Live preview Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder (photography) Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	Ive compared Canon EOS t2i with Nikon D3100 and finally I picked D3100. I am very happy about the decision.Comparison Nikon D3100 Canon EOS (company) Keep 1080p Inch Digital single-lens reflex camera D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor D5000 stabilization Color balance Live preview Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder (photography) Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Comparison Nikon D3100 Canon EOS (company) Keep 1080p Inch Digital single-lens reflex camera D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor D5000 stabilization Color balance Live preview Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder (photography) Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take.Comparison Nikon D3100 Canon EOS (company) Keep 1080p Inch Digital single-lens reflex camera D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor D5000 stabilization Color balance Live preview Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder (photography) Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	In hindsight The nikon D5100 has a better larger DX sensor vs canon APS sized sensor sensor. So less noise on the Nikon.Comparison Nikon D3100 Canon EOS (company) Keep 1080p Inch Digital single-lens reflex camera D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor D5000 stabilization Color balance Live preview Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder (photography) Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	Im glad to have this camera it has everything comparable to canon t2  1080p movie 14.2 mp 502g light weight. 3 inch screen Comparison Nikon D3100 Canon EOS (company) Keep 1080p Inch Digital single-lens reflex camera D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor D5000 stabilization Color balance Live preview Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder (photography) Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motorComparison Nikon D3100 Canon EOS (company) Keep 1080p Inch Digital single-lens reflex camera D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor D5000 stabilization Color balance Live preview Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder (photography) Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keepComparison Nikon D3100 Canon EOS (company) Keep 1080p Inch Digital single-lens reflex camera D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor D5000 stabilization Color balance Live preview Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder (photography) Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.Comparison Nikon D3100 Canon EOS (company) Keep 1080p Inch Digital single-lens reflex camera D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor D5000 stabilization Color balance Live preview Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder (photography) Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.Comparison Nikon D3100 Canon EOS (company) Keep 1080p Inch Digital single-lens reflex camera D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor D5000 stabilization Color balance Live preview Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder (photography) Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.Comparison Nikon D3100 Canon EOS (company) Keep 1080p Inch Digital single-lens reflex camera D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor D5000 stabilization Color balance Live preview Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder (photography) Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	I had been taking pictures with my roommates Canon EOS t2i for months and then I decided to get my own entry-level DSLR. Ive compared Canon EOS t2i with Nikon D3100 and finally I picked D3100. I am very happy about the decision.Comparison Nikon D3100 Canon EOS (company) Keep 1080p Inch Digital single-lens reflex camera D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor D5000 stabilization Color balance Live preview Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder (photography) Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am sure the Nikon D5100 is a spectacular camera and it sports a larder image sensor than the Canon. I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.Comparison Nikon D3100 Canon EOS (company) Keep 1080p Inch Digital single-lens reflex camera D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor D5000 stabilization Color balance Live preview Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder (photography) Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Comparison Nikon D3100 Canon EOS (company) Keep 1080p Inch Digital single-lens reflex camera D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor D5000 stabilization Color balance Live preview Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder (photography) Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Comparison Of Lcd Screen To T2i Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Canon (company) Display	 Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Comparison To T2i 1080p Liquid crystal display Keep Articulating screen Image stabilization Camera Computer monitor resolution Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Display Inch	and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keepComparison To T2i 1080p Liquid crystal display Keep Articulating screen Image stabilization Camera Computer monitor resolution Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Display Inch	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.Comparison To T2i 1080p Liquid crystal display Keep Articulating screen Image stabilization Camera Computer monitor resolution Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Display Inch	 Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Comparison To T2i 1080p Liquid crystal display Keep Articulating screen Image stabilization Camera Computer monitor resolution Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Display Inch	 has everything comparable to canon t2  1080p movie 14.2 mp 502g light weight. 3 inch screen Comparison To T2i 1080p Liquid crystal display Keep Articulating screen Image stabilization Camera Computer monitor resolution Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Display Inch	The articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i.Comparison To T2i 1080p Liquid crystal display Keep Articulating screen Image stabilization Camera Computer monitor resolution Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Display Inch	 At a glance the camera has a good feel to it and overall has the same features as the T2i. The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take.Comparison To T2i 1080p Liquid crystal display Keep Articulating screen Image stabilization Camera Computer monitor resolution Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Display Inch	 At a glance the camera has a good feel to it and overall has the same features as the T2i. The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Comparison To T2i 1080p Liquid crystal display Keep Articulating screen Image stabilization Camera Computer monitor resolution Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Display Inch	 At a glance the camera has a good feel to it and overall has the same features as the T2i. The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menu. The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not.Comparison To T31	 If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is differentComparison Vs T2i	Im a film student and was trying to decide between a t3i and Nikon 5100. everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera. the 600d has better continuous recording you have better manual capabilities. after a lot research i decided to go with the canon i went with a t3i and not a t2i for the flip around screen. i shoot in awkward positions sometimes and it defiantly comes in handyComparison With T3i Keep	direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keepComparison With T3i Keep	 according to the experts there is really not much difference betrween t2i and the t3i.Compatability	Nikon suggests certain memory cards that they certified to use with this camera. Complications	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards. They would have rested on the middle seats.  Other than that it is an awesome seat.  It holds tComponents Sun visor Headrest Melting point Inch Image resolution Computer monitor Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Canon (company) Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	guide modeComponents Sun visor Headrest Melting point Inch Image resolution Computer monitor Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Canon (company) Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	guide modeComponents Sun visor Headrest Melting point Inch Image resolution Computer monitor Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Canon (company) Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	No Flip-out LCDComponents Sun visor Headrest Melting point Inch Image resolution Computer monitor Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Canon (company) Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	head rest is removableComponents Sun visor Headrest Melting point Inch Image resolution Computer monitor Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Canon (company) Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	No thread adjustable strapsComponents Sun visor Headrest Melting point Inch Image resolution Computer monitor Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Canon (company) Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	comes with head/neck support cushionComponents Sun visor Headrest Melting point Inch Image resolution Computer monitor Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Canon (company) Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	14.2 mp 502g light weight. 3 inch screenComponents Sun visor Headrest Melting point Inch Image resolution Computer monitor Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Canon (company) Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	The pictures at full 18MP take a lot of memoryComponents Sun visor Headrest Melting point Inch Image resolution Computer monitor Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Canon (company) Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levelsComponents Sun visor Headrest Melting point Inch Image resolution Computer monitor Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Canon (company) Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	pretty easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easyComponents Sun visor Headrest Melting point Inch Image resolution Computer monitor Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Canon (company) Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	rticulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2iComponents Sun visor Headrest Melting point Inch Image resolution Computer monitor Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Canon (company) Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.Components Sun visor Headrest Melting point Inch Image resolution Computer monitor Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Canon (company) Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Components Sun visor Headrest Melting point Inch Image resolution Computer monitor Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Canon (company) Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Components Sun visor Headrest Melting point Inch Image resolution Computer monitor Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Canon (company) Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly.  It isnt hard to get back on and it is nice that it pops off so it can go on either side but it is annoying when he gets it off and starts throwing it around.Components Sun visor Headrest Melting point Inch Image resolution Computer monitor Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Canon (company) Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera	No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.Confort	seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature Confort	provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves itCons	there is absolutely NO padding.Cons	The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car.CONS - Battery	Battery life is not too greatCONS - Wireless Ugly Betty	 No wireless remoteCONS - Wireless Ugly Betty	GRID functions. These work only in LIVE VIEW MODE CONS - Wireless Ugly Betty	 Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the qualityCons About Product Digital single-lens reflex camera Liquid crystal display Autofocus Pixel Nikon Canon (company) Megapixel Zoom lens Camera Single-lens Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor D3100	I will make a brief of my own experience of this camera to DSLR beginnersPros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Cons- Screen  Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display	Low resolution of LCD screenConstruction Asymptotic giant branch Lightweight Infant car seat Britax Sun visor	serious lack of adequate paddingConstruction Asymptotic giant branch Lightweight Infant car seat Britax Sun visor	form factor it wont weigh me downConstruction Asymptotic giant branch Lightweight Infant car seat Britax Sun visor	the biggest is this darn sun visorConstruction Asymptotic giant branch Lightweight Infant car seat Britax Sun visor	where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingConstruction Asymptotic giant branch Lightweight Infant car seat Britax Sun visor	I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfyConstruction Asymptotic giant branch Lightweight Infant car seat Britax Sun visor	Also my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly.Construction Asymptotic giant branch Lightweight Infant car seat Britax Sun visor	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durableConstruction Asymptotic giant branch Lightweight Infant car seat Britax Sun visor	We are able to use our Britax Marathon a Graco booster and this infant car seat all in one row.Construction Asymptotic giant branch Lightweight Infant car seat Britax Sun visor	 Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.Construction Asymptotic giant branch Lightweight Infant car seat Britax Sun visor	I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.Construction Asymptotic giant branch Lightweight Infant car seat Britax Sun visor	Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day.Construction Asymptotic giant branch Lightweight Infant car seat Britax Sun visor	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Construction Asymptotic giant branch Lightweight Infant car seat Britax Sun visor	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. Construction Asymptotic giant branch Lightweight Infant car seat Britax Sun visor	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Consumer Reports	rated Consumer Reports	I purchased this seat because it was rated Continuous Mode	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous modeContradiction Product description (business)	Currently the product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat.  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Control Usability User (computing)	with user-friendly controlsControls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) User (computing) Nikon D3100 D5100 Menu Lightweight Slow motion	Easy to operateControls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) User (computing) Nikon D3100 D5100 Menu Lightweight Slow motion	No wireless remoteControls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) User (computing) Nikon D3100 D5100 Menu Lightweight Slow motion	user-friendly controlsControls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) User (computing) Nikon D3100 D5100 Menu Lightweight Slow motion	user-friendly controlsControls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) User (computing) Nikon D3100 D5100 Menu Lightweight Slow motion	solid and is easy to hold Controls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) User (computing) Nikon D3100 D5100 Menu Lightweight Slow motion	 intuitive and pleasant to use.Controls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) User (computing) Nikon D3100 D5100 Menu Lightweight Slow motion	No audio recording level adjustControls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) User (computing) Nikon D3100 D5100 Menu Lightweight Slow motion	view finder is very clear and has all basic settings info on the bottom borderControls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) User (computing) Nikon D3100 D5100 Menu Lightweight Slow motion	user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known forControls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) User (computing) Nikon D3100 D5100 Menu Lightweight Slow motion	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.Controls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) User (computing) Nikon D3100 D5100 Menu Lightweight Slow motion	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.Controls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) User (computing) Nikon D3100 D5100 Menu Lightweight Slow motion	 Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.Controls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) User (computing) Nikon D3100 D5100 Menu Lightweight Slow motion	  I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.Controls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) User (computing) Nikon D3100 D5100 Menu Lightweight Slow motion	exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality Controls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) User (computing) Nikon D3100 D5100 Menu Lightweight Slow motion	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quicklyControls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) User (computing) Nikon D3100 D5100 Menu Lightweight Slow motion	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usuallControls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) User (computing) Nikon D3100 D5100 Menu Lightweight Slow motion	Ergonomically the D3100 is the easier to use compared to the D5100 that had to relinquish four buttons to make room for the swivel screen of the D5100Controls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) User (computing) Nikon D3100 D5100 Menu Lightweight Slow motion	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.Controls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) User (computing) Nikon D3100 D5100 Menu Lightweight Slow motion	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for. Controls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) User (computing) Nikon D3100 D5100 Menu Lightweight Slow motion	to make a living.  This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.  I chControls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) User (computing) Nikon D3100 D5100 Menu Lightweight Slow motion	The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bitControls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) User (computing) Nikon D3100 D5100 Menu Lightweight Slow motion	ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.Controls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) User (computing) Nikon D3100 D5100 Menu Lightweight Slow motion	  I went so far as to query some industry professionals that use Canon DSLRs to make a living.  This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.Controls Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) User (computing) Nikon D3100 D5100 Menu Lightweight Slow motion	menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode. I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possibleConvenience  Headrest Infant car seat Mid-size Digital photography	head rest is removableConvenience  Headrest Infant car seat Mid-size Digital photography	I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenientConvenience  Headrest Infant car seat Mid-size Digital photography	He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all hereConvenience  Headrest Infant car seat Mid-size Digital photography	Other than the issues in rear facing position this is a terrific seatConvenience  Headrest Infant car seat Mid-size Digital photography	 Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Convenience  Headrest Infant car seat Mid-size Digital photography	 head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Convenience  Headrest Infant car seat Mid-size Digital photography	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsConvenience  Headrest Infant car seat Mid-size Digital photography	Normally he literally fights and struggles when it is time to get into the the car but not this time.Convenience  Headrest Infant car seat Mid-size Digital photography	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Convenience  Headrest Infant car seat Mid-size Digital photography	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out thereConvenience  Headrest Infant car seat Mid-size Digital photography	  I love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy.  It looks like it should be but does not feel like it is.  It appears to be a very sturdy camera.Convenience  Headrest Infant car seat Mid-size Digital photography	Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup.Convenience  Headrest Infant car seat Mid-size Digital photography	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.Convenience Infant car seat	I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenientConvenience Toddler	this seat makes it easy to do so.Convenient For Holding Cups	cup holder Convertability	 Im just thinking how happy she will be when she gets turned around in a few months.Cost Analysis	PriceCost Analysis	worth every pennyCost Of Lens Digital single-lens reflex camera (optics)	first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lensesCost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	PriceCost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	PriceCost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	PriceCost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	 PriceCost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	Cons- PriceCost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	8GB card are 50Cost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	a bit expensiveCost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	wallet friendlyCost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	its wallet friendlyCost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	 its wallet friendlyCost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	 its wallet friendlyCost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	 its wallet friendlyCost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	great deal for the priceCost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	price is very reasonable.Cost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	Bonus- its wallet friendlyCost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	those of us who cant afford a Britax.Cost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	out of stock at Amazon and also with 10Cost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	prices were just too close to pass it upCost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	I could not see myself spending that much Cost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	Overall a very nice car seat for the priceCost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	699  including the VR 55-200mm + camera bag with DVDCost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kitCost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	The only mistake i did was i bought 2 different lens18-55 Cost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraCost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.Cost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	money I saved on the camera I was able to purchase a telephoto lensCost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonableCost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	images from the D3100 are indistinguishable from the more expensive modelsCost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	for 150 bucks less I do not need a rotating screen and other minute extended featuresCost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lensCost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.Cost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Cost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	  Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Cost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backupCost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great productCost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100Cost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100Cost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	Overall were really happy with this car seat.  It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.Cost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	If your looking for a great Camera look no further you have found it  If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100Cost Wallet Britax Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Lens (optics) Camera 135 film Canon (company) AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	ot it for 699  including the VR 55-200mm + camera bag with DVD .  i also used the transcend 32 gb class 10 from amazon for 50 work without any problems . also bought battery at amazon for 27  EN EL 14   way way  amazing purchase. i have probably saved  200-300Could Pair It With EF-S 17 55 Mm F/2.8IS Canon lens mount EF F-number	ly so that I could pair it with the EF-S 17-55mm f/2.8 IS Cover Velcro Shoe	he material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Cover Velcro Shoe	he material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Cover Velcro Shoe	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Crash Tested	side crash testedCrop	7D in a crop bodyCrop Body Camera Walkaround	Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera.Cup Holder	my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quicklyCup Holder	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Cup Holder	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Cupholder	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the boxCupholder	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box.Cupholder	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Cust Service Customer service	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Satisfaction service Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep Camera	VERY PLEASED   Customer Satisfaction service Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep Camera	Average Customer ReviewCustomer Satisfaction service Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep Camera	20 of 20 people found the following review helpfulCustomer Satisfaction service Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep Camera	decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keepCustomer Satisfaction service Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep Camera	Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers Customer Satisfaction service Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep Camera	 customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-likeCustomer Satisfaction service Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep Camera	As a first time Digital SLR buyer and user I love this camera and would highly recommend it to others.Customer Satisfaction service Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep Camera	This body is rock solid and worthy of purchase for ANY and ALL people entering or needing an advanced DSLR camera.Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	free of chargeCustomer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	customer serviceCustomer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	customer serviceCustomer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	they sent me a new cover Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	 companies who please their customers Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	I purchased this seat because it was rated Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	Canon service is apparently better than nikonCustomer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	Both were delivered super fast and in perfect condition.Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	customer service with pictures and they sent me a new coverCustomer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	The car seat was delivered one day after I ordered it online.Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	came within 2 business days even though I did standard shipping.Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new coverCustomer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	 Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	 they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of chargeCustomer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of chargeCustomer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of chargeCustomer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of chargeCustomer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of chargeCustomer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of chargeCustomer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised.Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprisedCustomer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directlyCustomer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level.Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.Customer Service service Velcro Business day Suede Plush Nikon D5000	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick. One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers D5100 Nikon D3100	Ergonomically the D3100 is the easier to use compared to the D5100 that had to relinquish four buttons to make room for the swivel screen of the D5100Dark Venues Wedding photography	very specific use for it which is wedding photography and on dark venues the extra steps with the high ISO combined with large apertures on lenses provided the best combination for my needs.Darn Sun Visor	the biggest is this darn sun visorDedicated Iso Button	favorite thing is the dedicated iso button making it easy to change quickly.Dedicated Iso Button Making It Easy To Change	dicated iso button making it easy to change quickly.Delay British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital	 the delays are still there.Delay British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital	It makes a huge difference knowing you can press the shutter and the camera will instantly take a picture.  The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Delay British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital	Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.Delays	frequent and unpredictable delaysDelays	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous modeDelays	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Delays	.  The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Delays In Continuous Mode	he T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Delays In Taking Photos	delays Deliver	Both were delivered super fast Delivery Business day	delivered one dayDelivery Business day	 delivered super fastDelivery Business day	delivered super fast Delivery Business day	Both were delivered super fast and in perfect conditionDelivery Business day	car seat was delivered one day after I ordered it online.Delivery Business day	The car seat was delivered one day after I ordered it online.Delivery Business day	The car seat was delivered one day after I ordered it online.Delivery Business day	came within 2 business days even though I did standard shippingDelivery Business day	came within 2 business days even though I did standard shippingDelivery Business day	came within 2 business days even though I did standard shipping.Delivery Business day	Excellent Product came within 2 business days even though I did standard shipping. Fit my newborns head with the extra cushion that came with it.  Loved the colors as well. Works perfectly with the Snap N Go stroller piece.Delivery From Seller	elivered one day after I ordered it onlineDelivery Speed Out of the box Nissan Sentra	Amazon prime helped to get the delivery in a very shortest period which was not imaginable.TDelivery Speed Out of the box Nissan Sentra	The car seat was delivered one day after I ordered it online. Which was outstanding. I took it out of the box and my 2 year old became giddy with excitement. Normally he literally fights and struggles when it is time to get into the the car but not this time. I love this chair  My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure. I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra. As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once.Delivery Time	delivered one day after I ordered it online. Which was outstandingDenial Of A Ongoing Problem Firmware	  Apparently this is a discussed firmware issue but Nikon claimed they hadnt heard about itDescription Is Bad Product description (business)	 the product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat.Design And Operation Lightweight	. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.Design And Overall Weight Lightweight	Light weight great body designDesign Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	Very bulky.Design Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	big car seatDesign Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	extremely mobileDesign Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	height is adjustableDesign Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	head rest is removableDesign Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	Big enough for a toddlerDesign Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	Material is easy to cleanDesign Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	buckle system is heavy dutyDesign Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	No thread adjustable strapsDesign Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	a more toddler friendly seatDesign Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	higher weight limit as well.Design Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	mesh and into the babys eyesDesign Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	Light weight great body designDesign Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	no rethread harness is awesomeDesign Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	ergonomic arrangement of controlsDesign Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Design Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingDesign Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	It is a well made and designed car seatDesign Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	It is a well made and designed car seatDesign Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	really well constructed and pretty comfyDesign Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	a very tight space to use the light blue head restsDesign Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as wellDesign Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Design Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Design Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quicklyDesign Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	You do need a seat protector but youd need that with any car seatDesign Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.Design Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still smallDesign Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats.Design Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats.Design Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	when my daughter falls asleep they hold her head up so its not bobbing all over the place.Design Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	s a good choice.  Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto Design Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.Design Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issueDesign Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Design Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyDesign Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I takeDesign Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfyDesign Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Design Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels.Design Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Design Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. Design Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. Design Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal.Design Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Design Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Design Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Design Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.  I love the no rethread harness and although it took me a bit to figure out how to work it it is still fairly simple and much preferrable over the rethread type.Design Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Design Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Design Sun visor Headrest Toddler Child safety seat Velcro Shoe Autofocus Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Ergonomics Lightweight Keep Canon (company) Minivan Odyssey	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.  light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.Detachable Cup Holder	detachable one in the boxDetailed Zoom Adobe Photoshop	I took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality. I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer.Develop Over Time	Starting off on full auto moving through the different pre-determined settings sports portrait landscape etc and the into the manual modes.  I figure Im another year or so with this and Ill be ready to upgrade to the 7D and pass this on to my daughter.Diffcult To Install	.  Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick. One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of aDifferent Kinds Of Photos	 I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazingDifferent Level Adjustmenst	car seat. It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. I highly recommend this it item.Different Shots	I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing.Difficult To Install	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickDifficult To Install Rear Facing	difficult to install it rear facing.Digital 3X Zoom	Digital 3x zoom in video mode.Dimension- Weight Capability	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbsDimensions  Headrest	Very bulky.Dimensions  Headrest	head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Dimensions  Headrest	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Dimensions  Headrest	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out thereDimensions  Headrest	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Dimensions  Headrest	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards. They would have rested on the middle seats.Dimensions  Headrest	he biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out.Display Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Articulating screen Image stabilization resolution Megapixel Pixel Canon (company)	No Flip-out LCDDisplay Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Articulating screen Image stabilization resolution Megapixel Pixel Canon (company)	Low resolution of LCD screen.Display Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Articulating screen Image stabilization resolution Megapixel Pixel Canon (company)	T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screenDisplay Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Articulating screen Image stabilization resolution Megapixel Pixel Canon (company)	 The articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i.Display Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Articulating screen Image stabilization resolution Megapixel Pixel Canon (company)	The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flashDisplay Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Articulating screen Image stabilization resolution Megapixel Pixel Canon (company)	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.Do Not Have A Built In Focus Motor Nikon D5100 Image sensor Autofocus	kon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am sure the Nikon D5100 is a spectacular camera and it sports a larder image sensor than theDSLR Digital single-lens reflex camera	T2i is the Best Entry Level DSLRDull Photos Nikon D3100 Film speed	with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.Durability And Size Tamron	Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day.  I have used the f1.8 and the Tamron 70-300 lenses as well as the kit lens and love learning every day with it.Durability Velcro Shoe Asymptotic giant branch Use forms of explosives	durable enouDurability Velcro Shoe Asymptotic giant branch Use forms of explosives	very durableDurability Velcro Shoe Asymptotic giant branch Use forms of explosives	 well constructedDurability Velcro Shoe Asymptotic giant branch Use forms of explosives	well made and designedDurability Velcro Shoe Asymptotic giant branch Use forms of explosives	nice and heavy very durableDurability Velcro Shoe Asymptotic giant branch Use forms of explosives	is nice and heavy very durableDurability Velcro Shoe Asymptotic giant branch Use forms of explosives	appears to be a very sturdy cameraDurability Velcro Shoe Asymptotic giant branch Use forms of explosives	rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking itDurability Velcro Shoe Asymptotic giant branch Use forms of explosives	 very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durableDurability Velcro Shoe Asymptotic giant branch Use forms of explosives	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonableDurability Velcro Shoe Asymptotic giant branch Use forms of explosives	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durableDurability Velcro Shoe Asymptotic giant branch Use forms of explosives	I have a baby on the way and know the seat will be durable enough to withstand constant use through 2 children Durability Velcro Shoe Asymptotic giant branch Use forms of explosives	I have a baby on the way and know the seat will be durable enough to withstand constant use through 2 children Durability Velcro Shoe Asymptotic giant branch Use forms of explosives	he seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyDurability Velcro Shoe Asymptotic giant branch Use forms of explosives	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyDurability Velcro Shoe Asymptotic giant branch Use forms of explosives	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Durability Velcro Shoe Asymptotic giant branch Use forms of explosives	Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all dayDurability Velcro Shoe Asymptotic giant branch Use forms of explosives	Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day.Durability Velcro Shoe Asymptotic giant branch Use forms of explosives	 Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day. Durability Velcro Shoe Asymptotic giant branch Use forms of explosives	The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm gripDurability Velcro Shoe Asymptotic giant branch Use forms of explosives	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well.Durability Velcro Shoe Asymptotic giant branch Use forms of explosives	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well. Durable	heavy very durableDurable	 holds a child up to 65lbsDurable	ice and heavy very durableDurable	nice and heavy very durableDurable	 is nice and heavy very durableDurable	well constructed and pretty comfyDurable	seat will be durable enough to withstand constant use through 2 childrenDurable	f is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well.Ease Of Acess	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of Ease Of Cleaning Headrest	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingEase Of Cleaning Headrest	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come offEase Of Cleaning Headrest	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin.Ease Of Cleaning Headrest	 Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin.Ease Of Cleaning Headrest	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Ease Of Cleaning Headrest	he  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easilyEase Of Cleaning Headrest	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easilyEase Of Cleaning Headrest	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come offEase Of Getting Child In And Out	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durableEase Of Installation Parent-in-law Nissan Sentra	easly instaledEase Of Installation Parent-in-law Nissan Sentra	Easy to installEase Of Installation Parent-in-law Nissan Sentra	Easy to installEase Of Installation Parent-in-law Nissan Sentra	Easy to installEase Of Installation Parent-in-law Nissan Sentra	VERY easy to instalEase Of Installation Parent-in-law Nissan Sentra	difficult to installEase Of Installation Parent-in-law Nissan Sentra	easy to use and installEase Of Installation Parent-in-law Nissan Sentra	easly instaled it in the carEase Of Installation Parent-in-law Nissan Sentra	 set this up in about 7 minutesEase Of Installation Parent-in-law Nissan Sentra	It is so easy to use and installEase Of Installation Parent-in-law Nissan Sentra	It is so easy to use and installEase Of Installation Parent-in-law Nissan Sentra	nd easly instaled it in the car.Ease Of Installation Parent-in-law Nissan Sentra	It is so easy to use and install Ease Of Installation Parent-in-law Nissan Sentra	VERY easy to install base in car.Ease Of Installation Parent-in-law Nissan Sentra	VERY easy to install base in car.Ease Of Installation Parent-in-law Nissan Sentra	VERY easy to install base in car.Ease Of Installation Parent-in-law Nissan Sentra	 its a little difficult to installEase Of Installation Parent-in-law Nissan Sentra	  It is so easy to use and install Ease Of Installation Parent-in-law Nissan Sentra	The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well.Ease Of Installation Parent-in-law Nissan Sentra	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutesEase Of Installation Parent-in-law Nissan Sentra	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes.Ease Of Installation Parent-in-law Nissan Sentra	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars.Ease Of Installation Parent-in-law Nissan Sentra	My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing.Ease Of Installation Parent-in-law Nissan Sentra	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Ease Of Installation Parent-in-law Nissan Sentra	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durableEase Of Installation Parent-in-law Nissan Sentra	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Ease Of Installation Parent-in-law Nissan Sentra	Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do.Ease Of Installation Parent-in-law Nissan Sentra	They were pretty easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats.Ease Of Installation Parent-in-law Nissan Sentra	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars. Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. Ease Of Installation Parent-in-law Nissan Sentra	easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.Ease Of Installation Parent-in-law Nissan Sentra	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Ease Of Installation Parent-in-law Nissan Sentra	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.Ease Of Installation Parent-in-law Nissan Sentra	The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra. As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once.Ease Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	Ease of useEase Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	Ease of useEase Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	simple menuEase Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	best balanceEase Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	Easy to operateEase Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	easy to understandEase Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	flip out LCD screenEase Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	Its extremely mobileEase Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	 Best Entry Level DSLREase Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	This is my first DSLR Ease Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	user-friendly controlsEase Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	solid and is easy to holdEase Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	easly instaled it in the carEase Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	easy to get baby in and out ofEase Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lensEase Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	recommend this for long term useEase Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	It is so easy to use and install Ease Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	VERY easy to install base in car. Ease Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	  It is so easy to use and install Ease Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	i loved the guide mode when in doubt use guideEase Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	car seat is very easy to get baby in and out ofEase Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as wellEase Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing positionEase Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels naturalEase Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menuEase Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.Ease Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	 LOVE this camera. Its extremely mobile. I can just flip open my tripod lock and GO Ease Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	ighly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at aEase Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lensesEase Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	simple menu. The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not.Ease Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shotsEase Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the pictureEase Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	For ease of use IQ form factor it wont weigh me down etc. I feel as if the D3100 was a great purchase.Ease Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.Ease Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.Ease Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode so it acts like a point and shootEase Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	  Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode so it acts like a point and shootEase Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyEase Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forEase Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	the D3100 is the easier to use compared to the D5100 that had to relinquish four buttons to make room for the swivel screen of the D5100Ease Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	Starting off on full auto moving through the different pre-determined settings sports portrait landscape etc and the into the manual modesEase Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous modeEase Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.Ease Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	YOU CANT GO WRONG WITH THIS CAMERA   It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.  It is very user Friendly and Fun to use.Ease Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup.Ease Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	 It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.Ease Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bitEase Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Ease Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Ease Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficultEase Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Ease Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Ease Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	  I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.  The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual modeEase Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	As a first time Digital SLR buyer and user I love this camera and would highly recommend it to others.  We took about 300 pictures at a Thanksgiving get together and a few other people tried the camera out and were impressed as well.I am not a professional so please dont take my opinion as someone acting as an authority on this subject but as a first time user I am happy and hope my review will help any other first time digital camera fans out there.  Thanks.Ease Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	  The view finder is very clear and has all basic settings info on the bottom border.  The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRs. Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger with a swing-out plug.  This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.Ease Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	I looked at many items before pulling the trigger on the Canon T3i. I went to Best buy and tested out the Canon T2i the Nikon D5100 the Canon 60D and the Nikon D7000. After testing out all the products I came to the decision that the only cameras I liked that felt good in my hand were the Canon T2i Nikon D5100 and the Can T3i. I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal.Ease Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menu. The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not. I am a person to read through and learn the various features the camera has to offer. I am impressed with the lens that comes with the camera for the wide angle aspect of it due to a lot of places I shoot pictures there are a lot of people and requires me to get close to get the shot I wantEase Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	he camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.  The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode. I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.  The view finder is very clear and has all basic settings info on the bottom border.Ease Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	Well I have since done some research and participated in forums and found out there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photos.  You would expect Auto Modes to take easy great pictures in an entry level camera most people coming from point and shoot cameras.  If you want sharp pictures you have to use P S A or M modes with the D3100.  There you can control the ISO manually or use Auto ISO and choose a lower maximum ISO setting.  Apparently this is a discussed firmware issue but Nikon claimed they hadnt heard about it when I messaged themEase Of Use User (computing) Usability Menu forms of explosives Nikon D3100 1080p Digital single-lens reflex camera Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera photography (programming language) Film speed Point-and-shoot Mode dial Firmware lens Manual focus Autofocus Battery charger APS-C Lightweight Shutter (photography) button Out the box Computer monitor Velcro Shoe 135 film Lens (optics)	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.  The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode. I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.  The view finder is very clear and has all basic settings info on the bottom border.  The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRs.Ease Of Use/installation	 and easly instaled it in the car.Ease Of Use/installation	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out ofEase Of Use/installation	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.Ease Of Use/installation	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsEase To Clean	Hard to clean Ease To Use Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge)	 For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Ease To Use Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge)	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to useEasy  Wallet	It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Easy  Wallet	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well.Easy Install	VERY easy to install base in car. Easy Install	but it was easy if you read the instructions.Easy Install	rom when I opened the box and easly instaled it in the caEasy Installation	Easy to installEasy Installation	asly instaled it in the car. Easy Installation	It is so easy to use and installEasy Installation	VERY easy to install base in carEasy Installation	but it was easy if you read the instructions. Easy Installation	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars. Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. All I can say is this was a great purchase for our family.Easy Installation	trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.Easy Installation	I love this chair. from when I opened the box and easly instaled it in the car. it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it. Im just thinking how happy she will be when she gets turned around in a few months. This will even work for newborns. if I had known that I would have gotten this a long time ago.Easy Installation  Nissan Sentra	easly instaled Easy Installation  Nissan Sentra	The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra. As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once.Easy Instilation	 love this chair. from when I opened the box and easly instaled it in the car. it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it. Im just thinking how happy she will be when she gets turned around in a few months. This will even work for newborns. if I had known that I would have gotten this a long time ago.Easy Operation Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Easy Set Up	 set this up Easy To Carry	Relatively light Easy To Clean	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. All I can say is this was a great purchase for our familEasy To Clean	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Easy To Clean  Headrest	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come offEasy To Clean  Headrest	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. Easy To Clean  Headrest	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Easy To Install Parent-in-law Belching Wallet	really easy to installEasy To Install Parent-in-law Belching Wallet	easy to use and install Easy To Install Parent-in-law Belching Wallet	It is so easy to use and instalEasy To Install Parent-in-law Belching Wallet	VERY easy to install base in carEasy To Install Parent-in-law Belching Wallet	VERY easy to install base in car. Easy To Install Parent-in-law Belching Wallet	I also find it really easy to installEasy To Install Parent-in-law Belching Wallet	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutesEasy To Install Parent-in-law Belching Wallet	from when I opened the box and easly instaled it in the carEasy To Install Parent-in-law Belching Wallet	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. Easy To Install Parent-in-law Belching Wallet	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsEasy To Install Parent-in-law Belching Wallet	It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great productEasy To Install Parent-in-law Belching Wallet	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.Easy To Install Parent-in-law Belching Wallet	 VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.  light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.Easy To Use And Install	It is so easy to use and installEasy To Use Learning Curve	Its my first digital SLR Ive had it for about a year and I love it.  The T3i is out now so thats probably a better bet but I love the fact that I can slowly advance my knowledge of the SLR usage as I go.  Starting off on full auto moving through the different pre-determined settings sports portrait landscape etc and the into the manual modes.Easy To Use Usability Ease (programming language) Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge)	 ease of usEasy To Use Usability Ease (programming language) Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge)	Ease of useEasy To Use Usability Ease (programming language) Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge)	Ease of useEasy To Use Usability Ease (programming language) Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge)	Easy to operateEasy To Use Usability Ease (programming language) Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge)	Easy to operate.Easy To Use Usability Ease (programming language) Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge)	I am not a professional so please dont take my opinionEasy To Use Usability Ease (programming language) Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge)	the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well.Easy To Use Usability Ease (programming language) Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge)	What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.Easy To Use Usability Ease (programming language) Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge)	good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.Easy To Use Usability Ease (programming language) Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge)	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.Easy To Use Usability Ease (programming language) Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge)	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Easy To Use When Reading Instructions	easy if you read the instructionsEditing Adobe Photoshop	zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed pictureEfficiency  Nissan Sentra	easly instaled it in the car.Efficiency  Nissan Sentra	VERY easy to install base in carEfficiency  Nissan Sentra	fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan SentraEfficiency  Nissan Sentra	 wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easilyEquipment Autofocus Digital zoom	No autofocus when zoomingEr	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Ergonomic Arrangement Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge)	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to useErgonomic Arrangement Of Controls Ergonomics	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.  The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode. I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.  The view finder is very clear and has all basic settings info on the bottom border.  The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRs.Ergonomic Button Settings Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge)	  I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) Asymptotic giant branch Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display Nikon D3100 D5100 Lightweight Use forms of explosives	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) Asymptotic giant branch Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display Nikon D3100 D5100 Lightweight Use forms of explosives	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to useErgonomics Intuition (knowledge) Asymptotic giant branch Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display Nikon D3100 D5100 Lightweight Use forms of explosives	Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all dayErgonomics Intuition (knowledge) Asymptotic giant branch Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display Nikon D3100 D5100 Lightweight Use forms of explosives	Ergonomically the D3100 is the easier to use compared to the D5100 that had to relinquish four buttons to make room for the swivel screen of the D5100.Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) Asymptotic giant branch Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display Nikon D3100 D5100 Lightweight Use forms of explosives	The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRs. Battery life seems to be very good - loErgonomics Intuition (knowledge) Asymptotic giant branch Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display Nikon D3100 D5100 Lightweight Use forms of explosives	The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) Asymptotic giant branch Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display Nikon D3100 D5100 Lightweight Use forms of explosives	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bitErgonomics Intuition (knowledge) Asymptotic giant branch Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display Nikon D3100 D5100 Lightweight Use forms of explosives	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) Asymptotic giant branch Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display Nikon D3100 D5100 Lightweight Use forms of explosives	 Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) Asymptotic giant branch Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display Nikon D3100 D5100 Lightweight Use forms of explosives	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.Ergonomics Intuition (knowledge) Asymptotic giant branch Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display Nikon D3100 D5100 Lightweight Use forms of explosives	1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Excellent Still Photos Compared To Competitors	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPExpensive Memory Card Required	Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or moreExperience	please their customersExperience	 is so easy to use and installExpertise Point-and-shoot camera Camera Canon EOS 20D (company) Nikon D3000 D3100 Manual focus	upgraded from a Canon 20D Expertise Point-and-shoot camera Camera Canon EOS 20D (company) Nikon D3000 D3100 Manual focus	great for intermediate shooters Expertise Point-and-shoot camera Camera Canon EOS 20D (company) Nikon D3000 D3100 Manual focus	loved the guide mode when in doubt use guideExpertise Point-and-shoot camera Camera Canon EOS 20D (company) Nikon D3000 D3100 Manual focus	update to the Nikon D3000 that a friend of mine has.Expertise Point-and-shoot camera Camera Canon EOS 20D (company) Nikon D3000 D3100 Manual focus	compared Canon EOS t2i with Nikon D3100 and finally I picked D3100Expertise Point-and-shoot camera Camera Canon EOS 20D (company) Nikon D3000 D3100 Manual focus	this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.Expertise Point-and-shoot camera Camera Canon EOS 20D (company) Nikon D3000 D3100 Manual focus	looking seriously at the Canon T2i and the Nikon D3100.  For the money the D3100 cant be beat.  What sold me was the guide modeExpertise Point-and-shoot camera Camera Canon EOS 20D (company) Nikon D3000 D3100 Manual focus	For a begginer in the professional photography area I definetly see an ocean of difference between the t2i and point and shoot camerasExposure And Image Quality Wedding photography	very specific use for it which is wedding photography and on dark venues the extra steps with the high ISO combined with large apertures on lenses provided the best combination for my needs.External	he 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly.External Flash	The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.External Flash	The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.External Flash	The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.Extra Base	correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level.Extra Features Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Headrest Liquid crystal display Lola language	you can recline it at 3 different levels.Extra Features Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Headrest Liquid crystal display Lola language	T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is differentExtra Features Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Headrest Liquid crystal display Lola language	head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Extra Features Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Headrest Liquid crystal display Lola language	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Extra Features Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Headrest Liquid crystal display Lola language	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily Extra Features Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Headrest Liquid crystal display Lola language	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Extra Features Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Headrest Liquid crystal display Lola language	3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingExtra Features Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Headrest Liquid crystal display Lola language	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.Extra Features Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Headrest Liquid crystal display Lola language	Cons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingExtra Features Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Headrest Liquid crystal display Lola language	Cons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingExtra Features Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Headrest Liquid crystal display Lola language	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun outExtra Features Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Headrest Liquid crystal display Lola language	I chose the t2i over t3i because I didnt feel I would need to use the movable lcd screen and couldnt justify spending that much money on it. If you are condsidering the t3i go ahead and get the 60d. If youd like to see the work I have done with my t2i and 50mm.Extras Damnation HDMI	he biggest is this darn sun visoExtras Damnation HDMI	Disappointed they offer HDMI input but dont provided the cable.Fabric	This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touchFabric	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Fabric Quality Sun visor	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Fabric Wears Easily	seat coverFacing Rear	 extremely difficult to install it rear facingFairly Priced	the price is very reasonable.Fast Auto Focus Autofocus	Very fast auto focusFast Continuous Mode	The T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode Fast Startup	Fast start up speedFeature Comparison Shutter lag (photography) Autofocus Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Image stabilization Burst mode Liquid crystal display Nikon D3100 Film speed Firmware Pixel Digital Megapixel Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor Single-lens reflex	the guide modeFeature Comparison Shutter lag (photography) Autofocus Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Image stabilization Burst mode Liquid crystal display Nikon D3100 Film speed Firmware Pixel Digital Megapixel Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor Single-lens reflex	a lot of my review is based on comparison to Nikon.Feature Comparison Shutter lag (photography) Autofocus Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Image stabilization Burst mode Liquid crystal display Nikon D3100 Film speed Firmware Pixel Digital Megapixel Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor Single-lens reflex	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Feature Comparison Shutter lag (photography) Autofocus Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Image stabilization Burst mode Liquid crystal display Nikon D3100 Film speed Firmware Pixel Digital Megapixel Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor Single-lens reflex	 I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparisonFeature Comparison Shutter lag (photography) Autofocus Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Image stabilization Burst mode Liquid crystal display Nikon D3100 Film speed Firmware Pixel Digital Megapixel Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor Single-lens reflex	Well I have since done some research and participated in forums and found out there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.Feature Comparison Shutter lag (photography) Autofocus Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Image stabilization Burst mode Liquid crystal display Nikon D3100 Film speed Firmware Pixel Digital Megapixel Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor Single-lens reflex	No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingFeature Comparison Shutter lag (photography) Autofocus Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Image stabilization Burst mode Liquid crystal display Nikon D3100 Film speed Firmware Pixel Digital Megapixel Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor Single-lens reflex	Apparently this is a discussed firmware issue but Nikon claimed they hadnt heard about it when I messaged them...  Well go take a look at the forums out there it is an issue for those of us who expect quality shots in all modes. Feature Comparison Shutter lag (photography) Autofocus Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Image stabilization Burst mode Liquid crystal display Nikon D3100 Film speed Firmware Pixel Digital Megapixel Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor Single-lens reflex	Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFeature Comparison Shutter lag (photography) Autofocus Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Image stabilization Burst mode Liquid crystal display Nikon D3100 Film speed Firmware Pixel Digital Megapixel Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor Single-lens reflex	1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Feature Comparison Shutter lag (photography) Autofocus Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Image stabilization Burst mode Liquid crystal display Nikon D3100 Film speed Firmware Pixel Digital Megapixel Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor Single-lens reflex	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iFeature Comparison Shutter lag (photography) Autofocus Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Image stabilization Burst mode Liquid crystal display Nikon D3100 Film speed Firmware Pixel Digital Megapixel Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor Single-lens reflex	1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Feature Vs Price	 If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	Tight fitFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	so much roomFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	extra cushionFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	easy to installFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	easy to installFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	Easy to install Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	. No wireless remoteFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	do not clean easily Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	has very nice fabricFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	loved the guide modeFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	The seat is giganticFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	 it is a big car seatFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	head rest is removableFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	head rest is removableFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	and it fits just fine. Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	Loved the colors as well.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	I do NOT love cleaning it.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	 holds a child up to 65lbs Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	it provides comfert for herFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	No thread adjustable strapsFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	easly instaled it in the carFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	higher weight limit as well.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	 visor and made the new base aFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	is nice and heavy very durableFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	issues in rear facing positionFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	No audio recording level adjustFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	It is so easy to use and install Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	VERY easy to install base in car.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	 its a little difficult to install Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	t has a higher weight limit as wellFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	 has a higher weight limit as well. Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	comes with head/neck support cushion.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	essentially sitting on the hard plasticFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	overall has the same features as the T2iFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	my little ones head did not hang over once.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	a very tight space to use the light blue head restsFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as wellFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out ofFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touchFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well. Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	nstall was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our carsFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	Disappointed they offer HDMI input but dont provided the cable.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quicklyFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quicklyFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushionFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	  I also dont like some of the colors but that is personal preference.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keepFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	big enough rear facing all the way until two years old which is what the apa recommends.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levelsFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	 It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levelsFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shotsFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	The articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	the quality and sound you would have thought I used a real video camera and not one from a cameraFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out thereFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still smallFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	Big enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	  Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	The pictures at full 18MP take a lot of memory. Better get some means of decent storage space 750-1TB hardrive will doFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	looking seriously at the Canon T2i and the Nikon D3100.  For the money the D3100 cant be beat.  What sold me was the guide mode.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	The articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i. The prices were just too close to pass it up. Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	 Picture quality on this t2i is stunning so many features that it will take me months to figure out how to really get the most out of this camera.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	At a glance the camera has a good feel to it and overall has the same features as the T2i. The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screenFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRs. Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards. They would have rested on the middle seats.  Other than that it is an awesome seat.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.  I have learned more using that mode in one week than from the weeks Ive spent reading books and websites.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	Ive purchased SnugRides in the past but this is the first one to have a serious lack of adequate padding.  Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEATFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levelsFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	Some of the reviews complain that the Air  wings  cause problems for the kid seeing out but their height is adjustable AND I really like that when my daughter falls asleep they hold her head up so its not bobbing all over the place.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	Currently the product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat.  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	he 600d has better continuous recording you have better manual capabilities. after a lot research i decided to go with the canon i went with a t3i and not a t2i for the flip around screen. i shoot in awkward positions sometimes and it defiantly comes in handy.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	After searching and searching for a DSLR camera I had almost convinced myself of the T2i. I resisted and ended up waiting to purchase the T3i which was the best decision I made. At a glance the camera has a good feel to it and overall has the same features as the T2i.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	Since initially posting Ive purchased these lenses Canon EF 75-300mm f/4-5.6 III USM Telephoto Zoom Lens for Canon SLR Cameras and Canon EF 50mm f/1.8 II Camera Lens and really like what the camera can do. Im more and more certain in the 5 stars I put on this review. Really love this cameraFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFeatures Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	lk Video I have taken alot for Football and I can not believe the quality and sound you would have thought I used a real video camera and not one from a camera it has surpassed what I have expected for a camera I am unbelievably happy with my purchase. Amazon thank you for the quick delivery yet again Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	between a t3i and Nikon 5100. everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera. the 600d has better continuous recording you have better manual capabilities. after a lot research i decided to go with the canon i went with a t3i and not a t2i for the flip around screen. Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am sure the Nikon D5100 is a spectacular camera and it sports a larder image sensor than the Canon. I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	  The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car. I currently live in Japan where my hubby is currently stationed with the USMC.  We drive a large van similar to the old Chevy Astro van.  This seat would onlt fit in the 2nd row in the middle seating position so that it came up almost through the 2 front seats.  I doubt this seat would fit into any other position in any car.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	I went to Best buy and tested out the Canon T2i the Nikon D5100 the Canon 60D and the Nikon D7000. After testing out all the products I came to the decision that the only cameras I liked that felt good in my hand were the Canon T2i Nikon D5100 and the Can T3i. I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal. Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick. One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	 This camera is very tight on power consumption and has extreme accuracy when you set it for pinpoint focusing as I do for model and portrait photography work. The macro features are also on par with its more advanced and WAY higher priced big brothers to this camera. Now the 18.1MP sensor.....WOW  The image sizes of the CMOS sensor allow me great latitude in adjusting and tweaking my RAW images anytime I wish to be creative. If you are just starting out are bored with the out of date  point-n-shoot  want to upgrade your digital cams or you want to move from film to digital the T3i will not disappoint. Its an excellent camera for ANY level of photographer - beginner or experienced pro this camera really shines. Oh and the video.....Its 1080p HD nothing more needs to be said.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Features Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D3100 Canon (company) Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Velcro Shoe Headrest HDMI Out of the box Customer service Child safety seat  Minivan Odyssey Mid-size car SEAT Product description (business) Toddler Pool noodle Noodle Chevrolet Astro Japan Digital single-lens reflex camera Keep IBM 5100 resolution Megapixel Pixel Display Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot button D5100 sensor Manual focus 1080p CMOS D5000 Lithium-ion battery Zoom Single-lens D7000 EOS 60D EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Raw image format Active pixel	Ill inform the public so they too can enjoy ALL of the features of this outstanding camera. The articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i. The prices were just too close to pass it up. Ill be adding more T3i and T2i cameras to my photo biz in the coming months as well as trying out the IS lenses. This camera is very tight on power consumption and has extreme accuracy when you set it for pinpoint focusing as I do for model and portrait photography work. The macro features are also on par with its more advanced and WAY higher priced big brothers to this camera. Now the 18.1MP sensor.....WOW  The image sizes of the CMOS sensor allow me great latitude in adjusting and tweaking my RAW images anytime I wish to be creative. If you are just starting out are bored with the out of date  point-n-shoot  want to upgrade your digital cams or you want to move from film to digital the T3i will not disappoint. Its an excellent camera for ANY level of photographer - beginner or experienced pro this camera really shines. Oh and the video.....Its 1080p HD nothing more needs to be said. Canon yoFeatuures	 third childFeedback	have friends who love itFeel Canon EOS 20D Lightweight	Somewhat Compact sizeEase of useFeel Canon EOS 20D Lightweight	Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.Feel Canon EOS 20D Lightweight	It is as many have explained before a little small as I was used to the bigger and heavier 20D body but I guess is just a matter of getting used to it.Feel Canon EOS 20D Lightweight	  I love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy.  It looks like it should be but does not feel like it is.  It appears to be a very sturdy camera.Feel Canon EOS 20D Lightweight	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Feel Canon EOS 20D Lightweight	.  I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.File Size And Resolution	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPFilm	If you are just starting out are bored with the out of date  point-n-shoot  want to upgrade your digital cams or you want to move from film to digital the T3i will not disappoint.Filter UV filter (optics)	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare batteryFilter UV filter (optics)	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Firm Grip Use forms of explosives	ery adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm gripFirst DSLR 135 film Lens (optics)	18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensFirst Time Users Nikon D3100 Digital camera	For ease of use IQ form factor it wont weigh me down etc. I feel as if the D3100 was a great purchaseFirst Time Users Nikon D3100 Digital camera	I am not a professional so please dont take my opinion as someone acting as an authority on this subject but as a first time user I am happy and hope my review will help any other first time digital camera fans out there.  Thanks.FIt Hyundai Sonata Toddler	fit fineFIt Hyundai Sonata Toddler	seat is gigantic.FIt Hyundai Sonata Toddler	doesnt move aroundFIt Hyundai Sonata Toddler	size is pretty bigFIt Hyundai Sonata Toddler	fine and snug as canFIt Hyundai Sonata Toddler	The seat is gigantic.FIt Hyundai Sonata Toddler	Big enough for a toddlerFIt Hyundai Sonata Toddler	light bump in the middleFIt Hyundai Sonata Toddler	I was able to fit it easilyFIt Hyundai Sonata Toddler	 My son fits comfortably in itFIt Hyundai Sonata Toddler	It fit fine and snug as can beFIt Hyundai Sonata Toddler	It fit fine and snug as can beFIt Hyundai Sonata Toddler	 It fit fine and snug as can beFIt Hyundai Sonata Toddler	It fit fine and snug as can be.FIt Hyundai Sonata Toddler	 It fit fine and snug as can be.FIt Hyundai Sonata Toddler	it has fit really well in all carsFIt Hyundai Sonata Toddler	fits comfortably in it and has so much roomFIt Hyundai Sonata Toddler	ts very comfortable and appears to be very safeFIt Hyundai Sonata Toddler	fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.FIt Hyundai Sonata Toddler	car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move aroundFIt Hyundai Sonata Toddler	  Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.FIt Hyundai Sonata Toddler	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.FIt Hyundai Sonata Toddler	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.FIt Hyundai Sonata Toddler	This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to himFIt Hyundai Sonata Toddler	 fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.FIt Hyundai Sonata Toddler	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inFIt Hyundai Sonata Toddler	 My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inFIt Hyundai Sonata Toddler	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.FIt Hyundai Sonata Toddler	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.FIt Hyundai Sonata Toddler	not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is levelFIt Hyundai Sonata Toddler	I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars.FIt Hyundai Sonata Toddler	 This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him. I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.FIt Hyundai Sonata Toddler	with the side impact shaping its a very tight space to use the light blue head rests shown in the listing picture.  I havent tested it out yet but just from the appearance I can tell its not going to workFIt Hyundai Sonata Toddler	Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do. Again my little girl likes being in the seat and able to look out of the windows at the world around her. I would recommend this product to anyone I knew who was in need of a good car seat.Fits Easy On Tripod	I can just flip open my tripod lock and GO  Fits In Even Small Cars	Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do. Again my little girl likes being in the seat and able to look out of the windows at the world around herFits Seats With No Problem	It fit fine and snug as can beFits Snug	5.0 out of 5 stars Fits Well In Cars	it has fit really well in all cars.Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Autofocus Shutter Camera button Focus Point-and-shoot camera	Built-in flashFlash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Autofocus Shutter Camera button Focus Point-and-shoot camera	Built-in flash is not so greatFlash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Autofocus Shutter Camera button Focus Point-and-shoot camera	Built-in flash is not so greatFlash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Autofocus Shutter Camera button Focus Point-and-shoot camera	Built-in flash is not so greatFlash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Autofocus Shutter Camera button Focus Point-and-shoot camera	Built-in flash is not so greatFlash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Autofocus Shutter Camera button Focus Point-and-shoot camera	Built-in flash is not so greatFlash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Autofocus Shutter Camera button Focus Point-and-shoot camera	Built-in flash is not so great.Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Autofocus Shutter Camera button Focus Point-and-shoot camera	frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashesFlash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Autofocus Shutter Camera button Focus Point-and-shoot camera	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle settingFlash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Autofocus Shutter Camera button Focus Point-and-shoot camera	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shadeFlash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Autofocus Shutter Camera button Focus Point-and-shoot camera	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shadeFlash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Autofocus Shutter Camera button Focus Point-and-shoot camera	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Autofocus Shutter Camera button Focus Point-and-shoot camera	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Autofocus Shutter Camera button Focus Point-and-shoot camera	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Autofocus Shutter Camera button Focus Point-and-shoot camera	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Autofocus Shutter Camera button Focus Point-and-shoot camera	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Autofocus Shutter Camera button Focus Point-and-shoot camera	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Autofocus Shutter Camera button Focus Point-and-shoot camera	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Autofocus Shutter Camera button Focus Point-and-shoot camera	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Autofocus Shutter Camera button Focus Point-and-shoot camera	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Autofocus Shutter Camera button Focus Point-and-shoot camera	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Autofocus Shutter Camera button Focus Point-and-shoot camera	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocusFlash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Autofocus Shutter Camera button Focus Point-and-shoot camera	The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Autofocus Shutter Camera button Focus Point-and-shoot camera	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Autofocus Shutter Camera button Focus Point-and-shoot camera	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Autofocus Shutter Camera button Focus Point-and-shoot camera	 Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Flash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Autofocus Shutter Camera button Focus Point-and-shoot camera	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFlash Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle Autofocus Shutter Camera button Focus Point-and-shoot camera	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFlash Performance Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Flip Around Screen For Different Positions	flip around screenFlip Out LCD Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Computer monitor	No Flip-out LCDFlip Out LCD Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Computer monitor	flip out LCD screenFlip Out LCD Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Computer monitor	Low resolution of LCD screen.Flip Out LCD Screem	I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the videFlip Out Screen Frame rate Video Digital single-lens reflex camera Camera Liquid crystal display	It is GREAT for skate/surf video because of its 60fps mode.  If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraFlip Out Screen Frame rate Video Digital single-lens reflex camera Camera Liquid crystal display	After searching and searching for a DSLR camera I had almost convinced myself of the T2i. I resisted and ended up waiting to purchase the T3i which was the best decision I made. At a glance the camera has a good feel to it and overall has the same features as the T2i. The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take.Flip Out Screen Frame rate Video Digital single-lens reflex camera Camera Liquid crystal display	Im a film student and was trying to decide between a t3i and Nikon 5100. everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera. the 600d has better continuous recording you have better manual capabilities. after a lot research i decided to go with the canon i went with a t3i and not a t2i for the flip around screen. i shoot in awkward positions sometimes and it defiantly comes in handyFlip Out Viewfinder Versus Standard On T2i Articulating screen Image stabilization	The articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i.Flip Screen	allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.Foccus in Live Mode Slow Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button	Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFocus - Lighting  Autofocus Canon (company) Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Long-exposure photography	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingFocus - Lighting  Autofocus Canon (company) Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Long-exposure photography	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Focus - Lighting  Autofocus Canon (company) Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Long-exposure photography	he T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Focus - Lighting  Autofocus Canon (company) Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Long-exposure photography	2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Focus - Lighting  Autofocus Canon (company) Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Long-exposure photography	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	 FocusFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	video manual focusFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	built-in focus motorFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	Almost no low light auto focusFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	Almost no low light auto focusFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	Almost no low light auto focusFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	Almost no low light auto focus Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	Very fast auto focus on shootingFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	 Very fast auto focus on shooting.Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	Focus in live picture mode is slowFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	Focus in live picture mode is slowFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	Focus in live picture mode is slowFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	Focus in live picture mode is slowFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	No autofocus when zooming while taking videoFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focusFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the pictureFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow.Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow.Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor.Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor.Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor.Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor.Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFocus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.Focus Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics) Autofocus Shutter (photography) Manual focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Live preview Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor button Long-exposure photography Digital zoom Wide-angle lens Flash	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasFocus Speed Autofocus	 Very fast auto focus on shootingFocus Speed Autofocus	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Focusing And Flexibility CMOS	 This camera is very tight on power consumption and has extreme accuracy when you set it for pinpoint focusing as I do for model and portrait photography work. The macro features are also on par with its more advanced and WAY higher priced big brothers to this camera. Now the 18.1MP sensor.....WOW  The image sizes of the CMOS sensor allow me great latitude in adjusting and tweaking my RAW images anytime I wish to be creative.Focusing Motors Nikon D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Camera Color balance Film	Since I have switched from Nikon to Canon a lot of my review is based on comparison to Nikon.ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Foits With 2 Other Seats Infant car seat Child safety Britax	In anticipation of the arrival of our third child we bought this car seat to use in our sedan.  We didnt want to buy a new car or invest in all new car seats to make that happen.  We started shopping around and figure that a 17in. wide infant car seat will do.  I believe this is the only one that fits our need.  We are able to use our Britax Marathon a Graco booster and this infant car seat all in one row.  This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.For Any Photographer	ANY level of photographer For Armature Photographers And Beginners	the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.For Beginner Nikon D3100	I researched for several weeks looking seriously at the Canon T2i and the Nikon D3100.  For the money the D3100 cant be beat.  What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.  I have learned more using that mode in one week than from the weeks Ive spent reading books and websites.For Beginners Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics)	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR andFrequent Delays	frequent and unpredictable delaysFunction	The T2i is FASTFunction	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Functionality Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Headrest Camera lens Kit Tamron	head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Functionality Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Headrest Camera lens Kit Tamron	I have used the f1.8 and the Tamron 70-300 lenses as well as the kit lens and love learning every day with it.Functionality Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Headrest Camera lens Kit Tamron	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.Functionality Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Headrest Camera lens Kit Tamron	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.Functionality Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Headrest Camera lens Kit Tamron	My only issue with the T3i concerns the GRID functions. These work only in LIVE VIEW MODE as Ive found so far. As soon as you move up to manual for full control you lose the grid I use the 3x3 which helps me set my composition. Yes I can use my eye to place an imaginary grid in the viewfinder but WHY when one is readily available.Fuzzy	 soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyGeneral Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G single-lens Beginners IBM 5100	Excellent Beginners DSLRGeneral Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G single-lens Beginners IBM 5100	T3i greater then nikon 5100General Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G single-lens Beginners IBM 5100	I got it for 699  including the VR 55-200mm + camera bag with DVDGeneral Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G single-lens Beginners IBM 5100	Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital CamerasGeneral Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G single-lens Beginners IBM 5100	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.General Performance Keep	Battery life is not too greaGeneral Performance Keep	T2i is the one I will keep.  WhyGeneral Performance Keep	does not block my view since he is still small.General Performance Keep	T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous modeGet Nice Complements	I have had it for a few months now and I get alot of great compliments on my pictures they are professionalGetting Child In And Out	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out ofGetting The Base In A Level Position	you cannot tell if the car seat is level. Good Camera/lens Combo 1080p Raw image format	stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens comboGood Deal For The Price	I found this to be a great deal for the priceGood For Beginners Point-and-shoot camera Camera	For a begginer in the professional photography area I definetly see an ocean of difference between the t2i and point and shoot cameras. Picture quality on this t2i is stunning so many features that it will take me months to figure out how to really get the most out of this cGood For Carrying Around	light and smallGood For Even Newborns And Up	This will even work for newborns. if I had known that I would have gotten this a long time ago.Good For Infants And Toddlers Infant Toddler	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerGood For Motion Pictures Frame rate	t is GREAT for skate/surf video because of its 60fps mode.Good For Trips Digital single-lens reflex camera Shutter lag 135 film	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Good Lense Autofocus Digital single-lens reflex camera Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Shutter 135 film Canon (company) lag Point-and-shoot UV filter	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOther Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Good Low Light Shutter lag (photography)	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Good Overall Few Cons Infant car seat Chevrolet Astro Japan	I bought this seat for my son who is now 8 months old.  I got it because I already have the Safety 1st Air Protect On Board 35 SE Infant Car Seat which I love.  My son is still in his infant car seat but not for much longer.  I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit.  It is so high in fact that my 3 1/2 year old would still be able to be rear facing in this seat.  Rear facing is the safest way for small children to travel when in a car.  After purchasing this seat we took it for a test drive literally with the baby in it.  He seemed very comfortable in it and I liked that the extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.  I love the no rethread harness and although it took me a bit to figure out how to work it it is still fairly simple and much preferrable over the rethread type.Now for the cons.  The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car. I currently live in Japan where my hubby is currently stationed with the USMC.  We drive a large van similar to the old Chevy Astro van.  This seat would onlt fit in the 2nd row in the middle seating position so that it came up almost through the 2 front seats.  I doubt this seat would fit into any other position in any car.  My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing. Between my 3 kids Ive been through about 6 different convertible car seats in the past 8 years and this one was by far the most difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt.  At one point or another Ive had to install all of my previous car seats rear facing with the vehicle belt.  The instructions say to lift the seat pad when threading the belt through which I did but then once the seat was installed I couldnt get the pad back down over the seat where it was against the seat back of the actual vehicle seat.  So I had to uninstall it and reinstall it with the pad in its proper place making it very difficult to do.All in all I would definitely recommend this seat to others.Good Price	 price is very reasonableGood Quality For Videos	Takes good quality of videos.Good Service Nikon D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Camera Color balance Film	Since I have switched from Nikon to Canon a lot of my review is based on comparison to Nikon.ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Good Shipping Business day	Excellent Product came within 2 business days even though I did standard shipping. Fit my newborns head with the extra cushion that came with it.  Loved the colors as well. Works perfectly with the Snap N Go stroller piece.Good Shots	 I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing.Good Video 1080p	The best part was the 1080P video.Grainy Pictures	 grain in the pictureGreat Lens 135 film (optics)	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Great Shot Of Moving Characters American football High school in North America	My friends son is Captain of his High School Football team and I have gotten some great shots for him to send to recruiters and colleges now lets talk Video I have taken alot for Football and I can not believe the quality and soundGRID	My only issue with the T3i concerns the GRID functions.GRID	My only issue with the T3i concerns the GRID functions. GRID	As soon as you move up to manual for full control you lose the grid I use the 3x3 which helps me set my composition.GRID	GRID functions. These work only in LIVE VIEW MODE as Ive found so far. As soon as you move up to manual for full control you lose the grid I use the 3x3 which helps me set my composition. Yes I can use my eye to place an imaginary grid in the viewfinder but WHY when one is readily available.GRID	My only issue with the T3i concerns the GRID functions. These work only in LIVE VIEW MODE as Ive found so far. As soon as you move up to manual for full control you lose the grid I use the 3x3 which helps me set my composition. Yes I can use my eye to place an imaginary grid in the viewfinder but WHY when one is readily availableGRID	My only issue with the T3i concerns the GRID functions. These work only in LIVE VIEW MODE as Ive found so far. As soon as you move up to manual for full control you lose the grid I use the 3x3 which helps me set my composition. Yes I can use my eye to place an imaginary grid in the viewfinder but WHY when one is readily available.Grid Function	My only issue with the T3i concerns the GRID functions. These work only in LIVE VIEW MODE as Ive found so far. Grid On Screen	gridGrip Use forms of explosives Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Camera	adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm gripGrip Use forms of explosives Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Camera	 the only cameras I liked that felt good in my hand were the Canon T2i Nikon D5100 and the Can T3Grip Use forms of explosives Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Camera	 very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.Guide	What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.  I have learned more using that mode in one week than from the weeks Ive spent reading books and websites.Guide Mode For Beginners	What sold me was the guide mode.Guide Mode Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company)	 guide mode Guide Mode Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company)	guide mode. Guide Mode Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company)	 i loved the guide modeGuide Mode Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company)	Also i loved the guide mode when in doubt use guide.Guide Mode Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company)	For the money the D3100 cant be beat.  What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shotGuide Mode Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company)	What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.  I have learned more using that mode in one week than from the weeks Ive spent reading books and websites.Guide Mode Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company)	What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.  I have learned more using that mode in one week than from the weeks Ive spent reading books and websites.Guide Mode Nikon D3100 Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company)	I researched for several weeks looking seriously at the Canon T2i and the Nikon D3100.  For the money the D3100 cant be beat.  What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.  I have learned more using that mode in one week than from the weeks Ive spent reading books and websites.  For the money I saved on the camera I was able to purchase a telephoto lens to go with it.  Worth every penny.  I look forward to many years of great photos.Had To Face Forward Because Of Size	rear facing positionHandling Lightweight	Light weight great body design.Happiness With One Over Other	Decided to get t2i over t3i. . .and happy I didHard To Clean Headrest	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come offHard To Clean Headrest	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.  Thats not so bad since she did not puke on that part except that I was not aware that the headrest pad is attached to another pad that continues down the back behind the main pad   So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.  Im having quite an interesting time getting the nasty puke smell out of it.All that to say - I still love a lot of things about this carseat but I do NOT love cleaning it.Harness	The no rethread harness is awesomeHarness	adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seatsHarness	I love the no rethread harness and although it took me a bit to figure out how to work it it is still fairly simple and much preferrable over the rethread typeHd Capability Slow motion 1080p	The best part was the 1080P video.Hd Capability Slow motion 1080p	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money coHd Capability Slow motion 1080p	 Oh and the video.....Its 1080p HD nothing more needs to be said. Canon youve been ROCKIN my images for 30+ years     Stay cool and keep up the greatHD Video 1080p Slow motion Autofocus Image stabilization Camera Liquid crystal display Frame rate Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera	ull-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR CameraHD Video 1080p Slow motion Autofocus Image stabilization Camera Liquid crystal display Frame rate Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera	60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion HD Video 1080p Slow motion Autofocus Image stabilization Camera Liquid crystal display Frame rate Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion HD Video 1080p Slow motion Autofocus Image stabilization Camera Liquid crystal display Frame rate Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera	 The best part was the 1080P video. I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good and my wife who is very difficult to please liked it so much that she said that next time we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100HD Video 1080p Slow motion Autofocus Image stabilization Camera Liquid crystal display Frame rate Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iCons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingHDMI Cable	 Disappointed they offer HDMI input but dont provided the cable.HDMI Capability	Disappointed they offer HDMI input but dont provided the cableHdmi Input But No Cable Included HDMI	offer HDMI inputHead Neck Support	5.0 out of 5 stars Head Rest Does Not Come Off	headrest DOES NOT come offHead Rest Headrest Belching	 head rest is removableHead Rest Headrest Belching	 head rest is removableHead Rest Headrest Belching	headrest DOES NOT come offHead Rest Headrest Belching	the head rest is removableHead Rest Headrest Belching	 the head rest is removableHead Rest Headrest Belching	headrest DOES NOT come off Head Rest Headrest Belching	comes with head/neck support cushionHead Rest Headrest Belching	head rest is removable which does not block my viewHead Rest Headrest Belching	What I also love about it is the head rest is removableHead Rest Headrest Belching	What I also love about it is the head rest is removableHead Rest Headrest Belching	 head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Head Rest Headrest Belching	 daughter falls asleep they hold her head up so its not bobbing all over the place.Head Rest Headrest Belching	 I liked that the extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.Head Rest Headrest Belching	the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by handHead Rest Headrest Belching	I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still smallHead Rest Headrest Belching	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Head Rest Headrest Belching	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily  Head Rest Headrest Belching	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small.Head Rest Is Removable Headrest	the head rest is removableHead Support Cushion	head/neck support cushionHead/neck Support	head/neck support cushionHead/neck Support Cushion	 head/neck support cushionHeadrest	its a very tight space to use the light blue head restsHeadrest	head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still smallHeadrest	the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by handHeadrest Comfortable	 As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once.Headrest Comfortable	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view Headrest Is Removable	head rest is removableHeadrest Is Removable	at I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small. If you see the video when shopping for a car Headrest Removable	head rest is removableHeavily Researched	I am a person to research and research againHeavy	 heavyHeight Adjustment	Some of the reviews complain that the Air  wings  cause problems for the kid seeing out but their height is adjustable AND I really like that when my daughter falls asleep they hold her head up so its not bobbing all over the place.Height/Weight Limits	  I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit.  It is so high in fact that my 3 1/2 year old would still be able to be rear facing in this seat.Help Function Ugly Betty	My only issue with the T3i concerns the GRID functions. These work only in LIVE VIEW MODEHigh Definition Slow motion	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion High Iso Levels In Auto Mode Nikon D3100 Film speed	there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the settingHigh Resolution	 Now the 18.1MP sensorHigh Resolution	 Now the 18.1MP sensorHigh Speed And Memory Card card	 high speed memory cardHigh Weight Limit	 higher weight limit as well.Higher Cost	Excellent camera though a bit expensive - worth every pennyHighest Safety Rating	highest safety ratinHighest Safety Rating	highest safety rating.Hivemind	3 of 3 people found the following review helpfulHivemind	79 of 81 people found the following review helpfulHivemind	95 of 97 people found the following review helpfulHivemind	246 of 269 people found the following review helpfulHolding A Baby	head/neck support cushionHolding Camera In Awkward Positions Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Articulating screen Image stabilization	very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.Holding Camera In Awkward Positions Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Articulating screen Image stabilization	articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2iHolding Camera In Awkward Positions Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Articulating screen Image stabilization	articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason onlyHolding Weight	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Holds Child Up To 65 Pounds Uninstaller Installation (computer programs)	  So I had to uninstall it and reinstall it with the pad in its proper place making it very difficult to do.Holds Up To 65 Lbs	5.0 out of 5 stars How Light It Is	not very heavy.I	Easy to installI	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.Image Color balance stabilization	White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.Image Color balance stabilization	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensImage Color balance stabilization	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.Image Quality 1080p Point-and-shoot camera Camera Digital single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Single-lens D3100	Picture quality on this t2i is stunningImage Quality 1080p Point-and-shoot camera Camera Digital single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Single-lens D3100	  The bottom line is that images from the D3100 are indistinguishable from the more expensive models.Image Quality 1080p Point-and-shoot camera Camera Digital single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Single-lens D3100	The T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to.  Image Quality 1080p Point-and-shoot camera Camera Digital single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Single-lens D3100	This body is rock solid and worthy of purchase for ANY and ALL people entering or needing an advanced DSLR camera.Image Quality 1080p Point-and-shoot camera Camera Digital single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Single-lens D3100	  Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera.  Ive taken some stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens combo.Image Quality 1080p Point-and-shoot camera Camera Digital single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Single-lens D3100	The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Image Quality 1080p Point-and-shoot camera Camera Digital single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Single-lens D3100	I will not go into extended technical aspects as I am person that is making a transition from an old point and shoot to this DLSR. Camera is just amazing. For a begginer in the professional photography area I definetly see an ocean of difference between the t2i and point and shoot cameras.Image Quality 1080p Point-and-shoot camera Camera Digital single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Single-lens D3100	 I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer. The quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it. I also took a picture of a cherry tree that was about 30 yards away and then opened it up in Photoshop zoomed in and could see cherries that I could not even see with my eyes from the spot where I took the picture.Image Quality 1080p Point-and-shoot camera Camera Digital single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Single-lens D3100	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Image Stabilazation stabilization	Built in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensImage Stabilisation stabilization	Built in image stabilizerImproved Default Lens 135 film (optics)	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.In	Easy to installIn	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Independent Rating	rated Infant Acceptance car seat	He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.Infant Car Seat	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base.Infant Seat car seat	but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient. Info	 Ill be adding more T3i and T2i cameras to my photo biz in the coming monthsInfo	  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Instal	VERY easy to install base in carInstal	its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstall Time	I love this chair. from when I opened the box and easly instaled it in the car. it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it. Im just thinking how happy she will be when she gets turned around in a few months. This will even work for newborns. if I had known that I would have gotten this a long time ago.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	easy to installInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	Easy to installInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	Easy to installInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	Easy to installInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	pretty easy to installInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	easy to use and installInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	easy to use and install Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	so easy to use and installInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	little difficult to installInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	easly instaled it in the carInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	easly instaled it in the car.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	 easly instaled it in the car.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	VERY easy to install base in carInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	VERY easy to install base in carInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	It is so easy to use and install Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	VERY easy to install base in car.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	VERY easy to install base in car.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	hey are easy to install especially Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	It is so easy to use and install   Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	extremely difficult to install it rear facingInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	I did end up having my son install it for me. Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	easy to install especially as compared to the gracoInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our carsInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	 it really easy to install please do read all the directions firstInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	ts a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	es its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	 I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	 I had to uninstall it and reinstall it with the pad in its proper place making it very difficult to doInstall Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do. Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	 seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars.  Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	set this up in about 7 minutes. If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	I have been using the graco snug ride 30 metropolis for 2 months now. So far I am only satisfied with this car seat.pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Install Uninstaller Installation (computer programs) Pool noodle Minivan Odyssey  Parent-in-law	  The instructions say to lift the seat pad when threading the belt through which I did but then once the seat was installed I couldnt get the pad back down over the seat where it was against the seat back of the actual vehicle seat.  So I had to uninstall it and reinstall it with the pad in its proper place making it very difficult to do.Install Use	  The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well.Install-ability  Chevrolet Astro Van (Malaysian satellite television)	We drive a large van similar to the old Chevy Astro van.  This seat would onlt fit in the 2nd row in the middle seating position so that it came up almost through the 2 front seats.  I doubt this seat would fit into any other position in any carInstallability Pool noodle Hyundai Sonata	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstallability Pool noodle Hyundai Sonata	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Installability Pool noodle Hyundai Sonata	Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all carsInstallability Pool noodle Hyundai Sonata	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Installability Pool noodle Hyundai Sonata	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directlyInstallatin	hey were pretty easy to install Installation  Minivan Odyssey	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Installation (Ease Of Use)	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily Installation And Others Headrest	gigantic.Installation And Others Headrest	Very bulkyInstallation And Others Headrest	big car seatInstallation And Others Headrest	cleaning it.Installation And Others Headrest	 exteremly easyInstallation And Others Headrest	easy to installInstallation And Others Headrest	 easly instaled Installation And Others Headrest	he size is pretty bigInstallation And Others Headrest	fit well in both of ouInstallation And Others Headrest	head rest is removableInstallation And Others Headrest	 easy to use and install Installation And Others Headrest	VERY easy to install baseInstallation And Others Headrest	light weight and fits well Installation And Others Headrest	little difficult to installInstallation And Others Headrest	No thread adjustable strapsInstallation And Others Headrest	set this up in about 7 minutesInstallation And Others Headrest	Material is easy to clean and comfortable Installation Ease	 VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabricInstallation Ease	 Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seatInstallation Easy	tall was exteremly easy and it fit well in botInstallation Easy	easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats. Other than the issues in rear facing position this is a terrific seat.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	it was easyInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	out 7 minutesInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	set this up iInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	easly instaledInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Easy to instalInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Easy to installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	easy to installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Easy to installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Easy to installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Easy to installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Easy to installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Easy to installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Easy to installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Easy to installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Easy to installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Easy to installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Easy to installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Easy to installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Easy to installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Easy to installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Easy to installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Easy to installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Easy to installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Easy to installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Easy to installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	easly instaled iInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Easy to install Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Easy to install Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	 Easy to install Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	 Easy to install Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	easly instaled itInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	difficult to installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	difficult to installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	 VERY easy to installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	easy to install base iInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	pretty easy to installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	really easy to installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	instructions were simple Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Install was exteremly easyInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Install was exteremly easyInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Install was exteremly easyInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	little difficult to instalInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	so easy to use and installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	VERY easy to install base Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	 so easy to use and installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	difficult to install in carInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	easly instaled it in the caInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	little difficult to installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	  Install was exteremly easyInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	 so easy to use and install Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	easly instaled it in the carInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	easly instaled it in the carInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	easly instaled it in the carInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	easly instaled it in the carInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	easly instaled it in the carInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Easy to install via my hubbyInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Easy to install via my hubbyInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Easy to install via my hubbyInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Easy to install via my hubbyInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	fit really well in all cars.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	 easly instaled it in the carInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	 little difficult to install Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	 set this up in about 7 minutInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	a little difficult to installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	easly instaled it in the car.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	easly instaled it in the car.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Easy to install via my hubby Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	 easly instaled it in the car.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	 easly instaled it in the car.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	a little difficult to install Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	set this up in about 7 minutesInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	set this up in about 7 minutesInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	 set this up in about 7 minutesInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	 set this up in about 7 minutes.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	It is so easy to use and installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	It is so easy to use and installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	It is so easy to use and installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	It is so easy to use and installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	It is so easy to use and installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	They were pretty easy to installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	VERY easy to install base in carInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	 VERY easy to install base in carInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	 VERY easy to install base in carInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	It is so easy to use and install Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	It is so easy to use and install Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	It is so easy to use and install Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	It is so easy to use and install Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	It is so easy to use and install Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	It is so easy to use and install Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	They were pretty easy to install Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	VERY easy to install base in car.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	VERY easy to install base in car.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	VERY easy to install base in car.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	VERY easy to install base in car.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	VERY easy to install base in car.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	VERY easy to install base in car.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	VERY easy to install base in car.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	  It is so easy to use and installInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	VERY easy to install base in car. Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	  It is so easy to use and install Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	  It is so easy to use and install Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	difficult to install it rear facingInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	 it was a little tricky to get it inInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	s easy if you read the instructions. Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	it was easy if you read the instructionsInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	 it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	little difficult to install but you get thInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	extremely difficult to install it rear facingInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	 but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I opened the box and easly instaled it in the carInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	The instructions were a little hard for me to followInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	The instructions were a little hard for me to followInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as welInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as wellInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutesInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutesInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutesInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutesInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutesInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutesInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutesInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutesInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	  The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I have a 2003 Maxima which has a slight bump in the middleInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	  The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well. Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	  The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well. Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	 I have a 2003 Maxima which has a slight bump in the middleInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	from when I opened the box and easly instaled it in the carInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our carsInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	  Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the boxInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move aroundInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	 a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facingInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facingInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facingInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	 VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	 VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	 VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	 VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	pretty easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easyInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quickInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	as difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	  My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing. Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions firstInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick. Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	  Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	  Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	They are easy to install especially as compared to the graco one we bought firstInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	They are easy to install especially as compared to the graco one we bought first.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	 instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it rightInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levelsInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it rightInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it rightInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it rightInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	 I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	 I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions. Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions. Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Big enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	They were pretty easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	They were pretty easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats. Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow remember now I am the grandma and over 50 so please keep it simple Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars. Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	es its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick. One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of aInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	  It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction bookletInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction bookletInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	You do need a seat protector but youd need that with any car seat.  I also dont like some of the colors but that is personal preference.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	 read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions. I have a 2003 Maxima which has a sligInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securelyInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quicklyInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the sInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seatInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	 Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	 Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions. I have a 2003 Maxima which has a slight bump in the middleInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow remember now I am the grandma and over 50 so please keep it simple   I did end up having my son install it for meInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securelyInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securelyInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securelyInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securelyInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow remember now I am the grandma and over 50 so please keep it simple   I did end up having my son install it for me.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow remember now I am the grandma and over 50 so please keep it simple   I did end up having my son install it for me. Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely. Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	  I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	  Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars. Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. All I can say is this was a great purchase for our family.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it rightInstallation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	They are easy to install especially as compared to the graco one we bought first. The no rethread harness is awesome. The seat was comfortable looking and big enough rear facing all the way until two years old which is what the apa recommends.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	ros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	 But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing. My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.  Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.  Ive felt a lot of other car seats out there that feel like theyd be pretty hard to sit on and uncomfortable.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	The instructions say to lift the seat pad when threading the belt through which I did but then once the seat was installed I couldnt get the pad back down over the seat where it was against the seat back of the actual vehicle seat.  So I had to uninstall it and reinstall it with the pad in its proper place making it very difficult to do.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	.  I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars.  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.  Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.  light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Between my 3 kids Ive been through about 6 different convertible car seats in the past 8 years and this one was by far the most difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt.  At one point or another Ive had to install all of my previous car seats rear facing with the vehicle belt.  The instructions say to lift the seat pad when threading the belt through which I did but then once the seat was installed I couldnt get the pad back down over the seat where it was against the seat back of the actual vehicle seat.  So I had to uninstall it and reinstall it with the pad in its proper place making it very difficult to do.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	  My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing. Between my 3 kids Ive been through about 6 different convertible car seats in the past 8 years and this one was by far the most difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt.  At one point or another Ive had to install all of my previous car seats rear facing with the vehicle belt.  The instructions say to lift the seat pad when threading the belt through which I did but then once the seat was installed I couldnt get the pad back down over the seat where it was against the seat back of the actual vehicle seat.  So I had to uninstall it and reinstall it with the pad in its proper place making it very difficult to do.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.  light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Installation Parent-in-law Chevrolet Astro Japan Minivan Odyssey Pool noodle Belching Uninstaller (computer programs) Headrest Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Wallet Mid-size car Nissan Sentra Slig (Dune)	Rear facing is the safest way for small children to travel when in a car.  After purchasing this seat we took it for a test drive literally with the baby in it.  He seemed very comfortable in it and I liked that the extra deep side wings around the head kept his head from slumping to the side.  I love the no rethread harness and although it took me a bit to figure out how to work it it is still fairly simple and much preferrable over the rethread type.Now for the cons.  The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car. I currently live in Japan where my hubby is currently stationed with the USMC.  We drive a large van similar to the old Chevy Astro van.  This seat would onlt fit in the 2nd row in the middle seating position so that it came up almost through the 2 front seats.  I doubt this seat would fit into any other position in any car.  My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing. Between my 3 kids Ive been through about 6 different convertible car seats in the past 8 years and this one was by far the most difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt.  At one point or another Ive had to install all of my previous car seats rear facing with the vehicle belt.  The instructions say to lift the seat pad when threading the belt through which I did but then once the seat was installed I couldnt get the pad back down over the seat where it was against the seat back of the actual vehicle seat.  So I had to uninstall it and reinstall it with the pad in its proper place making it very difficult to do.Installation Process	Easy to installInstallation Process	ERY easy to install base in carInstallation Rear Seating	difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt. Installing Pool noodle Wallet	difficult to install Installing Pool noodle Wallet	easy to use and installInstalling Pool noodle Wallet	Easy to install via my hubbyInstalling Pool noodle Wallet	 I was able to fit it easily and securelyInstalling Pool noodle Wallet	easy to install please do read all the directions firstInstalling Pool noodle Wallet	easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids growInstalling Pool noodle Wallet	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutesInstalling Pool noodle Wallet	 VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Installing Pool noodle Wallet	I love this chair. from when I opened the box and easly instaled it in the car.Installing Pool noodle Wallet	this one was by far the most difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt.Installing Pool noodle Wallet	 The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it rightInstalling Pool noodle Wallet	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructionsInstalling Pool noodle Wallet	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Installing Pool noodle Wallet	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow remember now I am the grandma and over 50 so please keep it simple Installing Pool noodle Wallet	It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great producInstalling Pool noodle Wallet	The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Installing Pool noodle Wallet	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Installing Pool noodle Wallet	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Installing Pool noodle Wallet	y other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing. Between my 3 kids Ive been through about 6 different convertible car seats in the past 8 years and this one was by far the most difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt.  At one point or another Ive had to install all of my previous car seats rear facing with the vehicle belt.Instructions	guide modeInstructions	VERY easy to install base in car.Instructions	instructions were a little hard for me to followInstructions	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow Instructions	The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it rightInstructions	he instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Instructions	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Instructions	 I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Instructions	I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions. I have a 2003 Maxima which has a slight bump in the middleInstructions Too Complicated	The instructions were a little hard for me to follow remember now I am the grandma and over 50 so please keep it simple   I did end up having my son install it for me.  The chair is excellent quality.Instuction Materials	The instructions were a little hard for me to followInterface Menu (computing)	Easy to operate.Interface Menu (computing)	The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode. I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.Intermediate Shooters Digital single-lens reflex camera	for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.Intuitive Controls Usability	For ease of useIntuitive Controls Usability	What sold me was the guide mode.Intuitive Controls Usability	very intuitive and pleasant to use.Intuitive Controls Usability	Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode so it acts like a point and shoot.Is Good First Time Dslr 135 film Lens (optics)	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensIS Nikon D5000	it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i. IS Nikon D5000	The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.IS Nikon D5000	ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.Is Very Big	The size is pretty bigIso	I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for. Iso Button	my favorite thing is the dedicated iso button making it easy to change quickly.Iso Button	i would recommend this camera over any one on the market and shoots great in low lighting settings. all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels natural. my favorite thing is the dedicated iso button making it easy to change quickly.Iso Button	i would recommend this camera over any one on the market and shoots great in low lighting settings. all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels natural. my favorite thing is the dedicated iso button making it easy to change quickly.ISO Firmware Point-and-shoot camera	Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes.ISO Mode Nikon D3100 Film speed	here is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  It Has A Nice Wait To	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for tripsIt Is A Slow Camera DIGIC Digital single-lens reflex camera APS-C Canon EF-S lens mount 18-55mm EOS Image processing engine (company) EF CMOS	Canon EOS Rebel T3i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-Inch Clear View Vari-Angle LCD and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS LensIt Is Better Then The T3I 135 film Lens (optics)	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.It Is Good For On The Go.	It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lensesIt Take Fast Shots JPEG	I have the camera saving in both RAW and JPEG until I can get familiar enough to switch completely to RAW.  Saving in this format is 20MB a picture and this card has no trouble keeping upIt Take Good Video DIGIC APS-C Digital single-lens reflex camera Canon EF-S lens mount EOS 550D 18-55mm EF (company) Image processing engine CMOS	Canon EOS Rebel T2i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-inch LCD and and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS LensIt Take Nice Large Jpage Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens CMOS	Nikon D3100 16.2MP CMOS Digital SLR Camera with 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 AF-S DX VR Nikkor Zoom LensJust An Upgrade	Im a film student and was trying to decide between a t3i and Nikon 5100. everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera. the 600d has better continuous recording you have better manual capabilities. after a lot research i decided to go with the canon i went with a t3i and not a t2i for the flip around screen. i shoot in awkward positions sometimes and it defiantly comes in handy. i would recommend this camera over any one on the market and shoots great in low lighting settings. all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels natural. my favorite thing is the dedicated iso button making it easy to change quickly.Just As Pictured	 absolutely love this car seat. It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. I highly recommend this it item.Keeping Child Cool	This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped inKeeps Child Temperature At A Comfortable Level	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.  Some seats seemed too bulky and I know my daughter would be a sweaty mess in those styles.  This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped in.Kid Likes It Infant car seat	my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all hereKids Love It	 new saftey 1st car seat she loves itKit Lens lens Camera Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film (optics) Autofocus Ultrasonic motor	periodKit Lens lens Camera Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film (optics) Autofocus Ultrasonic motor	kit lensKit Lens lens Camera Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film (optics) Autofocus Ultrasonic motor	standardKit Lens lens Camera Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film (optics) Autofocus Ultrasonic motor	them will tell you they are crap lenseKit Lens lens Camera Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film (optics) Autofocus Ultrasonic motor	 if I could buy it again I would but not with the kit lensesKit Lens lens Camera Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film (optics) Autofocus Ultrasonic motor	Save yourself the headache of working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body.Kit Lens lens Camera Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film (optics) Autofocus Ultrasonic motor	Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensiveKit Lens lens Camera Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film (optics) Autofocus Ultrasonic motor	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lensesKit Lens lens Camera Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film (optics) Autofocus Ultrasonic motor	 I will say that if I could buy it again I would but not with the kit lenses yes it seems like a good deal. But anyone that knows cameras and knows their way around with them will tell you they are crap lenses.Kit Lens lens Camera Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film (optics) Autofocus Ultrasonic motor	I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer. The quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it. I also took a picture of a cherry tree that was about 30 yards away and then opened it up in Photoshop zoomed in and could see cherries that I could not even see with my eyes from the spot where I took the picture.Lack Of Padding SEAT	Not much padding in the seat part..Lack Of Padding SEAT	Ive purchased SnugRides in the past but this is the first one to have a serious lack of adequate padding.  Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEATLarge	 However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drivesLarge Seat Nissan Sentra	Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra.Large Size	The size is pretty bigLarger Car Seat Child safety seat	bigger than a lot of other car seats outLCD Display Image resolution Liquid crystal display	Low resolution of LCD screenLcd Pixel Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Autofocus Burst mode (photography)	230000 pixelsLcd Pixel Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Autofocus Burst mode (photography)	No Flip-out LCDLcd Pixel Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Autofocus Burst mode (photography)	Low resolution of LCD screenLcd Pixel Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Autofocus Burst mode (photography)	 Low resolution of LCD screenLcd Pixel Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Autofocus Burst mode (photography)	No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus wLCD Screen Articulated 1080p Liquid crystal display Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Camera	No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issueLCD Screen Articulated 1080p Liquid crystal display Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Camera	The articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2i.LCD Screen Articulated 1080p Liquid crystal display Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Camera	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menuLCD Screen Articulated 1080p Liquid crystal display Articulating screen Image stabilization Nikon D5100 D7000 Canon (company) EOS 60D Camera	I went to Best buy and tested out the Canon T2i the Nikon D5100 the Canon 60D and the Nikon D7000. After testing out all the products I came to the decision that the only cameras I liked that felt good in my hand were the Canon T2i Nikon D5100 and the Can T3i. I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	 LCD screenLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	flip around screenLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	flip out LCD screenLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	articulating LCD screenLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	articulating LCD screenLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	articulating LCD screenLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	articulating LCD screenLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	 articulating LCD screen.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	Low resolution of LCD screenLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	Low resolution of LCD screenLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	Low resolution of LCD screenLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	 Low resolution of LCD screenLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	Low resolution of LCD screen.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	 Low resolution of LCD screen.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	Low resolution of LCD screen. LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screenLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	 Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixelsLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screenLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screenLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screenLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screenLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixelsLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixelsLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I takeLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	I chose the t2i over t3i because I didnt feel I would need to use the movable lcd screen and couldnt justify spending that much money on it.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100. LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge dealLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal. LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possibleLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menuLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	 I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.  The view finder is very clear and has all basic settings info on the bottom border.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	I came to the decision that the only cameras I liked that felt good in my hand were the Canon T2i Nikon D5100 and the Can T3i. I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal.LCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	I resisted and ended up waiting to purchase the T3i which was the best decision I made. At a glance the camera has a good feel to it and overall has the same features as the T2i. The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menuLCD Screen Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Megapixel Canon (company) Camera 1080p Lola language Digital camera Autofocus Nikon Zoom lens Lithium-ion battery Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100	Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Learning Nikon D3100 Canon (company)	 researched for several weeks looking seriously at the Canon T2i and the Nikon D3100.  For the money the D3100 cant be beat.  What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.Lens Compared To Others 135 film (optics)	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	periodLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	periodLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	upgradeLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	upgradeLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	upgradeLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	crap lensesLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	18-135mm lensLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	18-135mm lensLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	18-135mm lensLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	18-135mm lensLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	18-135mm lensLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The T2i is FASTLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	d by Amazon.com.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	item ships for FRELens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The IS works really well Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	dont want to change lensesLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	18-135mm lens is a nice upgradeLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	f1.8 and the Tamron 70-300 lensesLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	Focus in live picture mode is slowLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	Focus in live picture mode is slow Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgradeLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	Pair it with the lens of your choiceLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	Pair it with the lens of your choiceLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	14.2MP Digital SLR Camera with 18-55mmLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	Canon 15-85mm f/3.5-5.6 EF-S Zoom LensLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	the camera and lens seem to work very wellLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	situation where you dont want to change lensesLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens availableLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	go for a single lens which covers the entire rangeLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kitLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body cameraLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	 this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body cameraLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	 this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body cameraLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	There are very many accessories and lenses for this camera.  Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	the kit lens that it comes with doesnt zoom far enough at all.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	his camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the monLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lenLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the moneyLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for tripsLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	 The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	I will say that if I could buy it again I would but not with the kit lensesLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	 I will say that if I could buy it again I would but not with the kit lensesLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	 this camera.  Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or more.  I purchased two Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. EsLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	 I am impressed with the lens that comes with the camera for the wide angle aspectLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	 Canon 15-85mm f/3.5-5.6 EF-S Zoom Lens and than I will be in some serious businessLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lensLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	 they are crap lenses. I wound up purchasing a 50mm 1.4 off a local photographer off CLLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	I chose the t2i over t3i because I didnt feel I would need to use the movable lcd screenLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus functionLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	For the money I saved on the camera I was able to purchase a telephoto lens to go with it. Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body cameraLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	 Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	If you are looking to do mainly surf but this camera BODY ONLY + a 18-135mm 55-200mm or 75-300mmLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135 lens is nice but a bit large. Maybe its large thats why the image quality is very good.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	But anyone that knows cameras and knows their way around with them will tell you they are crap lensesLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lensesLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lensesLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lensesLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	his kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light perforLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	 I will say that if I could buy it again I would but not with the kit lenses yes it seems like a good dealLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	I have used the f1.8 and the Tamron 70-300 lenses as well as the kit lens and love learning every day with it.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lensesLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lensesLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your cameraLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	 everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus whLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	Other Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	After reading many reviews and comparisons I decided on this camera as it is the update to the Nikon D3000 that a friend of mine has.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lensesLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lensesLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lensesLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lensesLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lensesLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	to take high quality photos of fairly small works of sculpture art using the Canon 60mm macro lens.  For that use the camera and lens seem to work very wellLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	his camera is very tight on power consumption and has extreme accuracy when you set it for pinpoint focusing as I do for model and portrait photography work.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	For that use the camera and lens seem to work very well.  I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	Im happy with my choice so far having purchased the camera first of all to take high quality photos of fairly small works of sculpture art using the Canon 60mm macro lens.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	Ive taken some stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens combo.  Save yourself the headache of working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	Save yourself the headache of working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body.  Pair it with the lens of your choice but I have no regrets with my 17-55mm purchase.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for tripsLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	 Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possibleLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	 I am impressed with the lens that comes with the camera for the wide angle aspect of it due to a lot of places I shoot pictures there are a lot of people and requires me to get close to get the shot I wantLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	I am impressed with the lens that comes with the camera for the wide angle aspect of it due to a lot of places I shoot pictures there are a lot of people and requires me to get close to get the shot I want.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	I am impressed with the lens that comes with the camera for the wide angle aspect of it due to a lot of places I shoot pictures there are a lot of people and requires me to get close to get the shot I want.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	I am impressed with the lens that comes with the camera for the wide angle aspect of it due to a lot of places I shoot pictures there are a lot of people and requires me to get close to get the shot I want.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	 I will say that if I could buy it again I would but not with the kit lenses yes it seems like a good deal. But anyone that knows cameras and knows their way around with them will tell you they are crap lensesLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	Well I have since done some research and participated in forums and found out there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photosLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	I am not a professional so please dont take my opinion as someone acting as an authority on this subject but as a first time user I am happy and hope my review will help any other first time digital camera fans out there.  Thanks.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficultLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficultLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	 of purchase for ANY and ALL people entering or needing an advanced DSLR camera. I purchased the body only - I have several lenses from my previous Canons which are NOT currently IS lenses. Ive been shooting people places and other thiLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	Im a film student and was trying to decide between a t3i and Nikon 5100. everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera. the 600d has better continuous recording you have better manual capabilities.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	Since initially posting Ive purchased these lenses Canon EF 75-300mm f/4-5.6 III USM Telephoto Zoom Lens for Canon SLR Cameras and Canon EF 50mm f/1.8 II Camera Lens and really like what the camera can do. Im more and more certain in the 5 stars I put on this review. Really love this camera.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	They all said the t2i or t3i its a great starter camera and will profuce amazing pictures as well. I will say that if I could buy it again I would but not with the kit lenses yes it seems like a good deal. But anyone that knows cameras and knows their way around with them will tell you they are crap lenses. Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.OverLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasLens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOther Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Lens Digital camera Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus Wide-angle (optics) 135 film single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon Single-lens D3100 AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Image quality Ergonomics Amazon.com Flash (photography) D3000 Walkaround Shutter lag Macrophotography Canon (company) 1080p Kit Zoom (association football) Point-and-shoot Focus EF 50mm f/1.8 II mount Telephoto F-number Tamron Angle EF-S Lola language Portrait photography Live preview Viewfinder Film speed UV filter Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery stabilization Headache	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Lens Kit lens Headache	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the moneyLens Kit lens Headache	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.Lens Kit lens Headache	Save yourself the headache of working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body.Lens Noise Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Lens Performance Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasLens Price	No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lensLens Quality Walkaround Autofocus Digital single-lens reflex camera Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Shutter 135 film Canon (company) lag Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Camera	ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body cameraLens Quality Walkaround Autofocus Digital single-lens reflex camera Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Shutter 135 film Canon (company) lag Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Camera	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOther Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Lens Quality Walkaround Autofocus Digital single-lens reflex camera Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Shutter 135 film Canon (company) lag Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Camera	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.  I conducted countless hours of research on Canons Nikons and even Sonys.  I was used to using point-and-shoots and small flip style video cameras to make my videos.  I looked into DSLRs and really wanted a canon.  YOU CANT GO WRONG WITH THIS CAMERA   It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.  It is very user Friendly and Fun to use.PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iCons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingLens/Range  Nikon D3100 D5100 Liquid crystal display Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Canon (company) Computer monitor	 purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Lens/Range  Nikon D3100 D5100 Liquid crystal display Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Canon (company) Computer monitor	I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.Lens/Range  Nikon D3100 D5100 Liquid crystal display Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Canon (company) Computer monitor	everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera. the 600d has better continuous recording you have better manual capabilities. after a lot research i decided to go with the canon i went with a t3i and not a t2i for the flip around screen. i shoot in awkward positions sometimes and it defiantly comes in handy.Lens/Range  Nikon D3100 D5100 Liquid crystal display Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Canon (company) Computer monitor	 went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal. The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am sure the Nikon D5100 is a spectacular camera and it sports a larder image sensor than the Canon. I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.Lense Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle DIGIC APS-C Digital single-lens reflex camera Canon EF-S mount EOS 550D 18-55mm EF (company) Image processing engine CMOS	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Lense Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle DIGIC APS-C Digital single-lens reflex camera Canon EF-S mount EOS 550D 18-55mm EF (company) Image processing engine CMOS	Canon EOS Rebel T2i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-inch LCD and and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS LensLense Value 135 film Lens (optics)	 The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensLight	 light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day.Light	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Light Weight Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	not very heavy.Light Weight Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	Relatively lightLight Weight Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Lighting Autofocus Long-exposure photography	shoots great in low lighting settingsLighting Autofocus Long-exposure photography	 shoots great in low lighting settingsLighting Autofocus Long-exposure photography	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingLightweight	again good for trips.Lightweight	t.  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Lightweight	1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shootinLittle Shutter lag (photography)	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Live Picture Mode Slow Point-and-shoot camera Camera Focus (optics)	 Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasLive Picture Point-and-shoot camera Camera Focus (optics)	Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasLive View Feature Nikon D5000 preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Camera Color balance Film	Since I have switched from Nikon to Canon a lot of my review is based on comparison to Nikon.ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Long Term Adjustability	They were pretty easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seatsLong-lasting	ice and heavy very durableLooks	 but this seat is also stylish Looks	This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or styleLots Of Room	 so much roomLoud Autofocus Motors Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor Electric	 loud autofocus motorsLoud Autofocus Motors Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor Electric	 loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set minLow Battery Life Pixel Digital camera Megapixel Autofocus Liquid crystal display Nikon Canon (company) Zoom lens Camera Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor Single-lens reflex D3100	1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Low Battery Life Pixel Digital camera Megapixel Autofocus Liquid crystal display Nikon Canon (company) Zoom lens Camera Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor Single-lens reflex D3100	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Low Cost Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera	its wallet friendlyLow Cost Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera	i have probably saved  200-300  i would recommend this to anybody i know who is into DSLR. NIKON  way to go  Low LCD Resolution Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Low Light AF Autofocus Long-exposure photography	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingLow Light Auto Focus Autofocus	Almost no low light auto focusLow Light Performance	good low-light performanceLow Light Shooting	shoots great in low lighting settings.Low Light Shutter lag (photography) Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Angle Autofocus Long-exposure photography Nikon D5100 D7000 Film speed	shoots great in low lighting settingsLow Light Shutter lag (photography) Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Angle Autofocus Long-exposure photography Nikon D5100 D7000 Film speed	hoots great in low lighting settings. Low Light Shutter lag (photography) Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Angle Autofocus Long-exposure photography Nikon D5100 D7000 Film speed	 shoots great in low lighting settings. Low Light Shutter lag (photography) Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Angle Autofocus Long-exposure photography Nikon D5100 D7000 Film speed	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoLow Light Shutter lag (photography) Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Angle Autofocus Long-exposure photography Nikon D5100 D7000 Film speed	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingLow Light Shutter lag (photography) Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Angle Autofocus Long-exposure photography Nikon D5100 D7000 Film speed	The  better sensor  in the D5100 and D7000 at best has a bit more low light sensitivity Low Light Shutter lag (photography) Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Angle Autofocus Long-exposure photography Nikon D5100 D7000 Film speed	shoots great in low lighting settings. all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels natural. Low Light Shutter lag (photography) Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Angle Autofocus Long-exposure photography Nikon D5100 D7000 Film speed	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shadeLow Light Video	 shoots great in low lighting settingsLow Res Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display	 Low resolution of LCD screen.Low Res LCD Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.Low Resolution Led Screen Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Canon (company) Display	 Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixelsLow Resolution Of LCD Screen Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	 Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.Low Resolution Pixel Digital camera Megapixel Autofocus Liquid crystal display Nikon Canon (company) Zoom lens Camera Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor Single-lens reflex D3100	1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Low Weight	Relatively lightLow-light Performance	good low-light performanceMacro	macro features are also on par with its more advanced and WAY higher priced big brothers to this cameraMacro Shots Macrophotography	high quality photos of fairly small works of sculpture art using the Canon 60mm macro lensMaintenance Headrest	Material is easy to cleanMaintenance Headrest	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingMaintenance Headrest	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come offMaintenance Headrest	here is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.Maintenance Headrest	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily Mango	boughtManual Focus Firmware Point-and-shoot camera Portrait photography Macrophotography Camera Photography Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Autofocus	Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes.Manual Focus Firmware Point-and-shoot camera Portrait photography Macrophotography Camera Photography Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Autofocus	 the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor.Manual Focus Firmware Point-and-shoot camera Portrait photography Macrophotography Camera Photography Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Autofocus	 This camera is very tight on power consumption and has extreme accuracy when you set it for pinpoint focusing as I do for model and portrait photography work. The macro features are also on par with its more advanced and WAY higher priced big brothers to this cameraManual Focus/video focus	video manual focusManual Mode	  The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode.Manufacturing	nice fabric thats soft to the touchMateri Customer service	emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of chargeMaterial Cleaning	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin.Material Cleaning	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Material Easy To Clean	Material is easy to cleanMaterial Easy To Clean	material is easy to take off and machine washMaterial Is Very Soft Good For Babies	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Material Scratches Easily Velcro	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers Material Used Velcro Shoe	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Material Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	Material is easy to cleanMaterial Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	seat cover became scratchyMaterial Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	The material was soft and fuzzyMaterial Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingMaterial Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	excellent padding and very nice soft fabricMaterial Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	excellent padding and very nice soft fabricMaterial Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	 dont need to compromise on quality or styleMaterial Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Material Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Material Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Material Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	suede-like plush material -- free of charge  Material Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Material Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skinMaterial Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skinMaterial Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin.Material Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyMaterial Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyMaterial Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyMaterial Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyMaterial Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyMaterial Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyMaterial Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happenMaterial Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Material Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Material Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Material Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Material Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	he material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Material Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happenMaterial Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Material Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Material Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped in.Material Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyMaterial Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEATMaterial Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Material Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Material Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyMaterial Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well.Material Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well.Material Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	 It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyMaterial Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyMaterial Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyMaterial Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyMaterial Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Material Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Material Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Material Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Material Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Material Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Material Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Material Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	 One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Material Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Material Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.Material Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	 a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick. One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Material Velcro Shoe Belching SEAT Plush Suede Sun visor	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers Materials Velcro Shoe	You do need a seat protector but youd need that with any car seatMaterials Velcro Shoe	 One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Max Burst Rate mode (photography)	3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustMeets Standards	 I understand each car seat has to meet standardsMegapixel 1080p High-definition television	1080p HDMegapixel 1080p High-definition television	18MP StillsMegapixels	18MP Stills Memory And Format Secure Digital JPEG	  Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or more.  I purchased two Transcend 8GB Class 10 SDHC Card TS8GSDHC10 from Amazon and so far these have been amazing.  I have the camera saving in both RAW and JPEG until I can get familiar enough to switch completely to RAW.  Saving in this format is 20MB a picture and this card has no trouble keeping up.Memory Card	Saving in this format is 20MB a picture and this card has no trouble keeping up.Memory Card Cost	Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or moreMemory Secure Digital JPEG card Computer data storage	emory cardsMemory Secure Digital JPEG card Computer data storage	I would recommend to get a high speed memory card. Memory Secure Digital JPEG card Computer data storage	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPMemory Secure Digital JPEG card Computer data storage	 high speed memory card. The pictures at full 18MP take a lot of memory.Memory Secure Digital JPEG card Computer data storage	 would recommend to get a high speed memory card. The pictures at full 18MP take a lot of memoryMemory Secure Digital JPEG card Computer data storage	 I would recommend to get a high speed memory card. The pictures at full 18MP take a lot of memory. Better get some means of decent storage space 750-1TB hardrive will doMemory Secure Digital JPEG card Computer data storage	I purchased two Transcend 8GB Class 10 SDHC Card TS8GSDHC10 from Amazon and so far these have been amazing.  I have the camera saving in both RAW and JPEG until I can get familiar enough to switch completely to RAW.  Saving in this format is 20MB a picture and this card has no trouble keeping up.Memory Secure Digital JPEG card Computer data storage	 certain memory cards that they certified to use with this camera.  Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or more.  I purchased two Transcend 8GB Class 10 SDHC Card TS8GSDHC10 from Amazon and so far these have been amazing.  I have the camera saving in both RAW and JPEG until I can get familiar enough to switch completely to RAW.  Saving in this format is 20MB a picture and this card has no trouble keeping upMemory Secure Digital JPEG card Computer data storage	Nikon suggests certain memory cards that they certified to use with this camera.  Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or more.  I purchased two Transcend 8GB Class 10 SDHC Card TS8GSDHC10 from Amazon and so far these have been amazing.  I have the camera saving in both RAW and JPEG until I can get familiar enough to switch completely to RAW.  Saving in this format is 20MB a picture and this card has no trouble keeping up.Memory Secure Digital JPEG card Computer data storage	Nikon suggests certain memory cards that they certified to use with this camera.  Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or more.  I purchased two Transcend 8GB Class 10 SDHC Card TS8GSDHC10 from Amazon and so far these have been amazing.  I have the camera saving in both RAW and JPEG until I can get familiar enough to switch completely to RAW.  Saving in this format is 20MB a picture and this card has no trouble keeping up.Menu	The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode.Menu System (computing)	menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to useMenu System (computing)	The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use.Mesh Does Not Block Sun	cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directlyMi Focal length Shutter speed Canon (company) Camera (photography) Zoom lens Film	No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.Min Shutter Speed Focal length speed Canon (company) Camera (photography) Zoom lens Film	No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.Misleading	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Mobility	Its extremely mobileMobility	 Its extremely mobile.Mode	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forModel DIGIC APS-C Digital single-lens reflex camera Canon EF-S lens mount EOS 550D 18-55mm EF (company) Image processing engine CMOS Nikon D3100 Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera	Nikon D3100 16.2MP CMOS Digital SLR Camera with 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 AF-S DX VR Nikkor Zoom LensModel DIGIC APS-C Digital single-lens reflex camera Canon EF-S lens mount EOS 550D 18-55mm EF (company) Image processing engine CMOS Nikon D3100 Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera	Canon EOS Rebel T2i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-inch LCD and and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS LensModel DIGIC APS-C Digital single-lens reflex camera Canon EF-S lens mount EOS 550D 18-55mm EF (company) Image processing engine CMOS Nikon D3100 Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera	Canon EOS Rebel T3i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-Inch Clear View Vari-Angle LCD and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS LensModel DIGIC APS-C Digital single-lens reflex camera Canon EF-S lens mount EOS 550D 18-55mm EF (company) Image processing engine CMOS Nikon D3100 Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera	I did alot of research I was going to buy a less expensive model but after all the research of this cameras features I just couldnt so I worked some more overtime so I could afford this camera.Model Name	model Modes Point-and-shoot camera Camera Focus (optics)	I changed the camera to P S A Modes Point-and-shoot camera Camera Focus (optics)	Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasModes Point-and-shoot camera Camera Focus (optics)	the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Money Britax Child safety seat	spending that much Money Britax Child safety seat	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much . More Lenses	lens kitMore Room Than Carrier Car Seat	 has so much room verses his carrier car seatMovable LCD Screen Liquid crystal display Camera Computer monitor	articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.MP DIGIC Digital single-lens reflex camera APS-C Canon EF-S lens mount 18-55mm EOS Image processing engine (company) EF CMOS 550D	18MP Stills MP DIGIC Digital single-lens reflex camera APS-C Canon EF-S lens mount 18-55mm EOS Image processing engine (company) EF CMOS 550D	Canon EOS Rebel T2i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-inch LCD and and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS LensMP DIGIC Digital single-lens reflex camera APS-C Canon EF-S lens mount 18-55mm EOS Image processing engine (company) EF CMOS 550D	Canon EOS Rebel T3i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-Inch Clear View Vari-Angle LCD and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS LensName Of Product	Graco Snugride Child Car SeatNature	 I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing.Neck Strap	good quality neck strapNeed A Lot Of Storage Space	The pictures at full 18MP take a lot of memory. Better get some means of decent storage space 750-1TB hardrive will doNeed To Buy Extra Parts UV filter	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Needed Accessories UV filter Filter (optics) Nikon D3100 Mode dial	No wireless remoteNeeded Accessories UV filter Filter (optics) Nikon D3100 Mode dial	you have to use P S A or M modes with the D3100Needed Accessories UV filter Filter (optics) Nikon D3100 Mode dial	Better get some means of decent storage space 750-1TB hardriveNeeded Accessories UV filter Filter (optics) Nikon D3100 Mode dial	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare batteryNeeds Uv Filter UV filter (optics)	Make sure to get UV filter New User Nikon D3100 Digital photography	For ease of use IQ form factor it wont weigh me down etc. I feel as if the D3100 was a great purchase. Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price Nice Material	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyNo Auto Focus Autofocus Digital zoom	No autofocusNo Auto Focus Autofocus Digital zoom	No autofocus when zooming while taking videoNo Auto-focus Autofocus Shutter (photography) button Digital single-lens reflex camera Wide-angle lens Flash 135 film Canon (company) lag Point-and-shoot UV filter	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.No Auto-focus Autofocus Shutter (photography) button Digital single-lens reflex camera Wide-angle lens Flash 135 film Canon (company) lag Point-and-shoot UV filter	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOther Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for No Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button	Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasNo Blockage Of View Headrest	head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.No Cable For HDMI Input	isappointed they offer HDMI input but dont provided the cableNo Instant Response	Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.No Manual Focus Nikon D5100 Autofocus Canon (company) focus Shutter (photography) Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	 video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am No Manual Focus Nikon D5100 Autofocus Canon (company) focus Shutter (photography) Point-and-shoot camera Camera (optics)	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasNo Padding	NO padding.  -No Padding	there is absolutely NO paddingNo Padding In Seat	NO paddingNo Padding Where Baby Sits	NO paddingNo Padding- Comfort	where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.No Rethread Harness Is Awesome	The no rethread harness is awesome. The seat was comfortable looking and big enough rear facing all the way until two years old which is what the apaNo Travel Type Charger Battery charger	battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger wNo Wireless Remote	 No wireless remote.Noise Nikon D5100 Advanced Photo System DX format Image noise Sensor Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus	So less noise on the Nikon.Noise Nikon D5100 Advanced Photo System DX format Image noise Sensor Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus	The nikon D5100 has a better larger DX sensor vs canon APS sized sensor sensor. So less noise on the Nikon.Noise Nikon D5100 Advanced Photo System DX format Image noise Sensor Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus	The nikon D5100 has a better larger DX sensor vs canon APS sized sensor sensor. So less noise on the Nikon.Noise Nikon D5100 Advanced Photo System DX format Image noise Sensor Camera lens Manual focus Autofocus	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.Noise Of Lens Autofocus (optics)	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function Noises	noisesNoisey Lens	lens makes noisesNoisy Pixel Digital camera Megapixel Autofocus Liquid crystal display Nikon Canon (company) Zoom lens Camera Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor Single-lens reflex D3100	1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Not Blocking The View Headrest	the head rest is removableNot Easy To Clean	he  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.  Thats not so bad since she did not puke on that part except that I was not aware that the headrest pad is attached to another pad that continues down the back behind the main pad   So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.  Im having quite an interesting time getting the nasty puke smell out Not Enough Padding In The Seat	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.  light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Not Needing To Change Lenses	dont want to change lensesNot Pro Level SLR APS-C	This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.Not Removable	Air  wings Not Simple Instructions	I chose it because it has the highest safety rating. The instructions were a little hard for me to follow remember now I am the grandma and over 50 so please keep it simple   I did end up having my son install it for me.  The chair is excellent quality.Not Sure About The Weight Limit Product description (business)	the product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seatNot Washable	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easilyNumber Of People Who Already Purchased Star (classification)	4.5 out of 5 starsNumber Of Positive Reviews/negative	259 ReviewsNumber Of Positive Reviews/negative	259 ReviewsOne Day Delivery	delivered one dayOperate	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Operation Use forms of explosives	Easy to operateOperation Use forms of explosives	Easy to operate.Operation Use forms of explosives	makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode.Operation Use forms of explosives	capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modesOperation Use forms of explosives	capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modesOperation Use forms of explosives	The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.Operation Use forms of explosives	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Operation Use forms of explosives	 Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.Operations Video Quality Digital camera Autofocus Megapixel single-lens reflex Liquid crystal display Pixel Lithium-ion battery Nikon F-number Zoom lens Camera Computer monitor Canon (company) Single-lens Manual focus D3100	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Overall this is an incredible camera. You will not regret it.In addition if youd love to take beautiful portraits for your beloved ones Id highly recommend you to also get a Nikon 35mm f/1.8G AF-S DX Lens for Nikon Digital SLR Cameras. It can be used to take short range portraits close-ups and indoors where the light is insufficient. I am not doing ads for Nikon or Amazon but you will really find the lens worth your investment.Opinion	I am not a professional so please dont take my opinion as someone acting as an authority on this subjectOptions	it my newborns head with the extra cushion that came with it.  Loved the colors as well. Works perfectly with the Snap N Go stroller piecOptions Available In Video Mode	I think that video modes in SLR cameras are fairly useless unless you are good with manual focussing and use the tripod. BTW the lens IS does work in video mode.Outdoor Shoot Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Canon (company) Lens (optics)	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.Output HDMI	Disappointed they offer HDMI input but dont provided the cable. Outside Reviews	rated Overall  Image stabilization	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Overall  Image stabilization	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iOverall Camera Firmware Point-and-shoot camera	  Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modesOverall Design Of Product Velcro Shoe	seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyOverall Performance  Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOverall Performance Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100 Image stabilization Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot button Film speed British Rail Class 10 Secure lag Infant car seat	I am very pleased that I purchased this car seat.Overall Performance Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100 Image stabilization Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot button Film speed British Rail Class 10 Secure lag Infant car seat	 Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Overall Performance Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100 Image stabilization Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot button Film speed British Rail Class 10 Secure lag Infant car seat	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Overall Performance Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100 Image stabilization Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot button Film speed British Rail Class 10 Secure lag Infant car seat	there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.Overall Performance Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100 Image stabilization Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot button Film speed British Rail Class 10 Secure lag Infant car seat	If youd like to see the work I have done with my t2i and 50mm. . check me out brittneysheystudios.comOverall Performance Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100 Image stabilization Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot button Film speed British Rail Class 10 Secure lag Infant car seat	this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.Overall Performance Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100 Image stabilization Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot button Film speed British Rail Class 10 Secure lag Infant car seat	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Overall Performance Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100 Image stabilization Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot button Film speed British Rail Class 10 Secure lag Infant car seat	- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Overall Performance Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100 Image stabilization Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot button Film speed British Rail Class 10 Secure lag Infant car seat	  I love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy.  It looks like it should be but does not feel like it is.  It appears to be a very sturdy camera.Overall Performance Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100 Image stabilization Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot button Film speed British Rail Class 10 Secure lag Infant car seat	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOverall Performance Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100 Image stabilization Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot button Film speed British Rail Class 10 Secure lag Infant car seat	The bottom line is that images from the D3100 are indistinguishable from the more expensive models.  Ergonomically the D3100 is the easier to use compared to the D5100 that had to relinquish four buttons to make room for the swivel screen of the D5100.  Following is a link to my review of the D3100Overall Performance Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100 Image stabilization Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot button Film speed British Rail Class 10 Secure lag Infant car seat	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.Overall Performance Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100 Image stabilization Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot button Film speed British Rail Class 10 Secure lag Infant car seat	I used the same exact settings on both cameras large Jpeg P-mode Quick AF.  Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.Overall Performance Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100 Image stabilization Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot button Film speed British Rail Class 10 Secure lag Infant car seat	I upgraded from nikon D50 to this. So of course the pictures are much much better.In hindsight The nikon D5100 has a better larger DX sensor vs canon APS sized sensor sensor. So less noise on the Nikon.Also I think that video modes in SLR cameras are fairly useless unless you are good with manual focussing and use the tripod. BTW the lens IS does work in video mode.Overall Performance Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100 Image stabilization Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot button Film speed British Rail Class 10 Secure lag Infant car seat	1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Overall Performance Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100 Image stabilization Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot button Film speed British Rail Class 10 Secure lag Infant car seat	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iOverall Performance Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100 Image stabilization Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot button Film speed British Rail Class 10 Secure lag Infant car seat	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iCons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingOverall Performance Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100 D5100 Image stabilization Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot button Film speed British Rail Class 10 Secure lag Infant car seat	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Overall Quality Of Seat Britax	I love this chair. from when I opened the box and easly instaled it in the car. it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it. Im just thinking how happy she will be when she gets turned around in a few months. This will even work for newborns. if I had known that I would have gotten this a long time ago.Overall Quality Of Seat Britax	Love this car seat   After extensive research and practically being settled on the Britax Advocate I feel like you get what you pay for I was told about this car seat and figured I would give it a try.  Worse case I would just use it in my husbands car and then order the Britax for my car.  No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.  I am going to order another one of these for my husbands car.  It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Overall Rating Liquid crystal display Macrophotography APS-C	I researched several SLRs before deciding on the Canon T3i.  Im happy with my choice so far having purchased the camera first of all to take high quality photos of fairly small works of sculpture art using the Canon 60mm macro lens.  For that use the camera and lens seem to work very well.  I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.  The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode. I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.  The view finder is very clear and has all basic settings info on the bottom border.  The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRs. Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expected.  The included corded battery charger will appeal to some but not to those who prefer the travel type charger with a swing-out plug.  This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.Overall Review	VERY PLEASEDOverall Review	I love this chair.Overall Review Usability	Great car seatOverall Review Usability	Love this car seat Overall Review Usability	For ease of use IQ form factor Overall Review Usability	I absolutely love this car seat.Overall Review Usability	I highly recommend this it item.Overall Review Usability	 Its an excellent camera for ANY level of photographer - beginner or experienced proOverall Review Usability	Overall we feel both our children are safe and would recommend this for long term use to friends and family members. We are contemplating buying two more so we have matching seats in both vehicles. They are worth every penny.Overall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	Canon T3i ROCKS Overall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	Built in image stabilizerOverall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	Excellent camera though a bit expensiveOverall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	I have no regrets with my 17-55mm purchaseOverall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhyOverall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	I decided that this model offered me the best balance.Overall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraOverall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	The quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love itOverall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Overall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO.Overall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	As a first time Digital SLR buyer and user I love this camera and would highly recommend it to others.Overall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	Big enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsOverall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	This body is rock solid and worthy of purchase for ANY and ALL people entering or needing an advanced DSLR camera.Overall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	t is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.  It is very user Friendly and Fun to use.Overall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes.Overall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	 It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyOverall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	Compared to my Kodak point and shoot the pictures are great.  I love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavyOverall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motorOverall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.Overall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingOverall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known forOverall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menu. The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not.Overall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	.  This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Overall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speedOverall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge dealOverall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	Cons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingOverall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.Overall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	I feel as if the D3100 was a great purchase. Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup.Overall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOverall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Overall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Overall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.Overall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iOverall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Overall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Overall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Overall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Overall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOverall SEAT Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability Image stabilization Autofocus Burst mode (photography) Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor Nikon D5100 Point-and-shoot Camera Eastman Kodak Shutter lag 135 film Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash button Keep Use forms of explosives 1080p User (computing) Menu D5000 Color balance Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Lens Film Firmware D3100 photography Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Single-lens	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Additionally with the side impact shaping its a very tight space to use the light blue head rests shown in the listing picture.  I havent tested it out yet but just from the appearance I can tell its not going to work.Ive purchased SnugRides in the past but this is the first one to have a serious lack of adequate padding.  Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEATOverall Size (Fit In Car)	The seat is giganticOverall Size (Fit In Car)	Awesome but a little bigOverall Size (Fit In Car)	Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do.Overall Usage Pool noodle Shutter lag (photography) Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Camera	Very satisfied with this productOverall Usage Pool noodle Shutter lag (photography) Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Camera	A good car seat that fits our needsOverall Usage Pool noodle Shutter lag (photography) Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Camera	Excellent camera though a bit expensive - worth every penny.Overall Usage Pool noodle Shutter lag (photography) Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Camera	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light Overall Usage Pool noodle Shutter lag (photography) Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Camera	This is a great car seat. I did a lot of research on safety price etc. before buying this one.Overall Usage Pool noodle Shutter lag (photography) Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Camera	i have probably saved  200-300  i would recommend this to anybody i know who is into DSLR. NIKON  way to go  Overall Usage Pool noodle Shutter lag (photography) Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Camera	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.  I conducted countless hours of research on Canons Nikons and even Sonys.Overall Usage Pool noodle Shutter lag (photography) Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Camera	Being new to the DSLR world though an avid photography enthusiast for many years theres not a lot for me to compare the D3100 to. However my own experience in the short week since I purchased the camera has been extremely gratifying.Overall Usage Pool noodle Shutter lag (photography) Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Camera	i would recommend this camera over any one on the market and shoots great in low lighting settings. all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels natural. my favorite thing is the dedicated iso button making it easy to change quickly.Overall Usage Pool noodle Shutter lag (photography) Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Camera	My hubby and Father-in-law set this up in about 7 minutes. If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Overall Im very satisfied with my purchase.Overall Usage Pool noodle Shutter lag (photography) Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Camera	 If you are just starting out are bored with the out of date  point-n-shoot  want to upgrade your digital cams or you want to move from film to digital the T3i will not disappoint. Its an excellent camera for ANY level of photographer - beginner or experienced pro this camera really shines.Overall Usage Pool noodle Shutter lag (photography) Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Camera	ros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.  light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.I think I would purchase this car seat again if they changed the visor and made the new base available.Overall Use And Picture/video Capability Shutter lag (photography) 1080p Autofocus Lens (optics) Raw image format	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoOverall Use And Picture/video Capability Shutter lag (photography) 1080p Autofocus Lens (optics) Raw image format	 stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens comboOverall Use And Picture/video Capability Shutter lag (photography) 1080p Autofocus Lens (optics) Raw image format	430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelesslyOverall Use And Picture/video Capability Shutter lag (photography) 1080p Autofocus Lens (optics) Raw image format	GRID functions. These work only in LIVE VIEW MODE as Ive found so farOverall Use And Picture/video Capability Shutter lag (photography) 1080p Autofocus Lens (optics) Raw image format	230k dots screen its very bright and clear anyways compare to 900+ dotOverall Use And Picture/video Capability Shutter lag (photography) 1080p Autofocus Lens (optics) Raw image format	Ive taken some stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens comboOverall Use And Picture/video Capability Shutter lag (photography) 1080p Autofocus Lens (optics) Raw image format	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forOverall Use And Picture/video Capability Shutter lag (photography) 1080p Autofocus Lens (optics) Raw image format	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurateOverall Use And Picture/video Capability Shutter lag (photography) 1080p Autofocus Lens (optics) Raw image format	adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous modeOverall Value APS-C Digital single-lens reflex camera Video Camera	This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.Overall Value APS-C Digital single-lens reflex camera Video Camera	the other contenders were the T3i and T3 close  range and after careful though on ISO performance MPs price and features I decided that this model offered me the best balance.Overall Value APS-C Digital single-lens reflex camera Video Camera	I was used to using point-and-shoots and small flip style video cameras to make my videos.  I looked into DSLRs and really wanted a canon.  YOU CANT GO WRONG WITH THIS CAMERA   It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.Padded Well	 padded wellPadding Not Good	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Padding Protection	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco toPadding Velcro Shoe Belching Pool noodle	NO paddingPadding Velcro Shoe Belching Pool noodle	ely NO padding.  Padding Velcro Shoe Belching Pool noodle	thats soft to the touch Padding Velcro Shoe Belching Pool noodle	the seat seams padded wellPadding Velcro Shoe Belching Pool noodle	there is absolutely NO paddingPadding Velcro Shoe Belching Pool noodle	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingPadding Velcro Shoe Belching Pool noodle	very nice fabric thats soft to the touchPadding Velcro Shoe Belching Pool noodle	excellent padding and very nice soft fabricPadding Velcro Shoe Belching Pool noodle	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Padding Velcro Shoe Belching Pool noodle	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. IPadding Velcro Shoe Belching Pool noodle	where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingPadding Velcro Shoe Belching Pool noodle	but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingPadding Velcro Shoe Belching Pool noodle	comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Padding Velcro Shoe Belching Pool noodle	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingPadding Velcro Shoe Belching Pool noodle	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingPadding Velcro Shoe Belching Pool noodle	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Padding Velcro Shoe Belching Pool noodle	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding. Padding Velcro Shoe Belching Pool noodle	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still Padding Velcro Shoe Belching Pool noodle	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Padding Velcro Shoe Belching Pool noodle	where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats itPadding Velcro Shoe Belching Pool noodle	 If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Padding Velcro Shoe Belching Pool noodle	disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy. Padding Velcro Shoe Belching Pool noodle	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -Padding Velcro Shoe Belching Pool noodle	So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.Padding Velcro Shoe Belching Pool noodle	Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.  Ive felt a lot of other car seats out there that feel like theyd be pretty hard to sit on and uncomfortable.Padding Velcro Shoe Belching Pool noodle	 Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats iPadding Velcro Shoe Belching Pool noodle	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.Padding Velcro Shoe Belching Pool noodle	 Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding Padding Velcro Shoe Belching Pool noodle	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.Padding Velcro Shoe Belching Pool noodle	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Particulars	 i would recommend this camera over any one on the market and shoots great in low lighting settings.Performance - Speed Shutter lag (photography) Slow motion Frame rate Keep Firmware 1080p Nikon D3100 Color balance Live preview Autofocus Focal length Canon (company) speed Viewfinder Camera Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital	Slower than T2i Performance - Speed Shutter lag (photography) Slow motion Frame rate Keep Firmware 1080p Nikon D3100 Color balance Live preview Autofocus Focal length Canon (company) speed Viewfinder Camera Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital	Fast start up speedPerformance - Speed Shutter lag (photography) Slow motion Frame rate Keep Firmware 1080p Nikon D3100 Color balance Live preview Autofocus Focal length Canon (company) speed Viewfinder Camera Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital	Fast start up speedPerformance - Speed Shutter lag (photography) Slow motion Frame rate Keep Firmware 1080p Nikon D3100 Color balance Live preview Autofocus Focal length Canon (company) speed Viewfinder Camera Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital	he ISO firmware issuePerformance - Speed Shutter lag (photography) Slow motion Frame rate Keep Firmware 1080p Nikon D3100 Color balance Live preview Autofocus Focal length Canon (company) speed Viewfinder Camera Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital	the 18.1MP sensor.....WOWPerformance - Speed Shutter lag (photography) Slow motion Frame rate Keep Firmware 1080p Nikon D3100 Color balance Live preview Autofocus Focal length Canon (company) speed Viewfinder Camera Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital	The best part was the 1080P video. Performance - Speed Shutter lag (photography) Slow motion Frame rate Keep Firmware 1080p Nikon D3100 Color balance Live preview Autofocus Focal length Canon (company) speed Viewfinder Camera Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital	60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Performance - Speed Shutter lag (photography) Slow motion Frame rate Keep Firmware 1080p Nikon D3100 Color balance Live preview Autofocus Focal length Canon (company) speed Viewfinder Camera Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital	No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issuePerformance - Speed Shutter lag (photography) Slow motion Frame rate Keep Firmware 1080p Nikon D3100 Color balance Live preview Autofocus Focal length Canon (company) speed Viewfinder Camera Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital	decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keepPerformance - Speed Shutter lag (photography) Slow motion Frame rate Keep Firmware 1080p Nikon D3100 Color balance Live preview Autofocus Focal length Canon (company) speed Viewfinder Camera Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance - Speed Shutter lag (photography) Slow motion Frame rate Keep Firmware 1080p Nikon D3100 Color balance Live preview Autofocus Focal length Canon (company) speed Viewfinder Camera Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital	hat images from the D3100 are indistinguishable from the more expensive modelsPerformance - Speed Shutter lag (photography) Slow motion Frame rate Keep Firmware 1080p Nikon D3100 Color balance Live preview Autofocus Focal length Canon (company) speed Viewfinder Camera Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital	Fast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPerformance - Speed Shutter lag (photography) Slow motion Frame rate Keep Firmware 1080p Nikon D3100 Color balance Live preview Autofocus Focal length Canon (company) speed Viewfinder Camera Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital	  The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous modePerformance - Speed Shutter lag (photography) Slow motion Frame rate Keep Firmware 1080p Nikon D3100 Color balance Live preview Autofocus Focal length Canon (company) speed Viewfinder Camera Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital	I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picturPerformance - Speed Shutter lag (photography) Slow motion Frame rate Keep Firmware 1080p Nikon D3100 Color balance Live preview Autofocus Focal length Canon (company) speed Viewfinder Camera Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhyPerformance - Speed Shutter lag (photography) Slow motion Frame rate Keep Firmware 1080p Nikon D3100 Color balance Live preview Autofocus Focal length Canon (company) speed Viewfinder Camera Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital	Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.Performance - Speed Shutter lag (photography) Slow motion Frame rate Keep Firmware 1080p Nikon D3100 Color balance Live preview Autofocus Focal length Canon (company) speed Viewfinder Camera Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Performance - Speed Shutter lag (photography) Slow motion Frame rate Keep Firmware 1080p Nikon D3100 Color balance Live preview Autofocus Focal length Canon (company) speed Viewfinder Camera Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor Lens (optics) Film British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital	ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Performance (speed) Shutter lag (photography)	T2i is FASTPerformance (speed) Shutter lag (photography)	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performancePerformance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	18MP Stills Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	18.1MP sensorPerformance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	18MP Stills  Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	3.7 max burst ratePerformance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	60fps HD RecordingPerformance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	grain in the picturePerformance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	video.....Its 1080p Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	delays are still therePerformance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	Built-in flash is not so greatPerformance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	Digital 3x zoom in video mode.Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	I changed the camera to P S A Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	This is not a professional level SLRPerformance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delaysPerformance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoPerformance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoPerformance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraPerformance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhyPerformance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoPerformance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoPerformance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoPerformance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoPerformance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoPerformance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoPerformance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	 Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	 Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazingPerformance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow.Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	Almost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingPerformance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C cameraPerformance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode so it acts like a point and shootPerformance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photosPerformance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	In hindsight The nikon D5100 has a better larger DX sensor vs canon APS sized sensor sensor. So less noise on the Nikon.Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	he T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous modePerformance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	 Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for tripsPerformance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	I used the same exact settings on both cameras large Jpeg P-mode Quick AF.  Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	Cons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingPerformance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speedPerformance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	The best part was the 1080P video. I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good and my wife who is very difficult to please liked it so much that she said that next time we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasPerformance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	I took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality. I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer. The quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it.Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	I own a Nikon D7000 that I traded up to after owning a D3100 that I used to take over 8000 photos with.  Ive also extensively used a Nikon D5100 so I have a pretty good sense of the capability of each of Nikons three consumer cameras.  The bottom line is that images from the D3100 are indistinguishable from the more expensive models.Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.  I conducted countless hours of research on Canons Nikons and even Sonys.  I was used to using point-and-shoots and small flip style video cameras to make my videos.  I looked into DSLRs and really wanted a canon.  YOU CANT GO WRONG WITH THIS CAMERA   It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iPerformance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photos.  You would expect Auto Modes to take easy great pictures in an entry level camera most people coming from point and shoot cameras.  If you want sharp pictures you have to use P S A or M modes with the D3100.  There you can control the ISO manually or use Auto ISO and choose a lower maximum ISO setting.  Apparently this is a discussed firmware issue but Nikon claimed they hadnt heard about it when I messaged themPerformance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	 This camera is very tight on power consumption and has extreme accuracy when you set it for pinpoint focusing as I do for model and portrait photography work. The macro features are also on par with its more advanced and WAY higher priced big brothers to this camera. Now the 18.1MP sensor.....WOW  The image sizes of the CMOS sensor allow me great latitude in adjusting and tweaking my RAW images anytime I wish to be creative. If you are just starting out are bored with the out of date  point-n-shoot  want to upgrade your digital cams or you want to move from film to digital the T3i will not disappoint. Its an excellent camera for ANY level of photographer - beginner or experienced pro this camera really shines. Oh and the video.....Its 1080p HD nothing more needs to be said.Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOther Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Performance Shutter lag (photography) Frame rate Burst mode Keep APS-C 1080p Live preview Viewfinder Color balance Autofocus Long-exposure photography Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) button Wide-angle lens Flash Canon (company) Point-and-shoot UV filter Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Zoom Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens D3100 Usability Sony Radio Academy Awards CMOS Focal length speed Ultrasonic motor Film D5100 Mode dial Firmware Adobe Photoshop D7000 Focus	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Performance Speed Keep	decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhyPhoto/video Quality American football High school in North America 1080p	I chose to purchase the camera body separately so that I could pair it with the EF-S 17-55mm f/2.8 IS USM lens.  Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera.  Ive taken some stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens combo.Photo/video Quality American football High school in North America 1080p	I took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality. I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer. The quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it. I also took a picture of a cherry tree that was about 30 yards away and then opened it up in Photoshop zoomed in and could see cherries that I could not even see with my eyes from the spot where I took the picture.Photo/video Quality American football High school in North America 1080p	I have had it for a few months now and I get alot of great compliments on my pictures they are professional looking my family and friends say and these are just on the automatic setting LOL wait until I read more and experiment. I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing. My friends son is Captain of his High School Football team and I have gotten some great shots for him to send to recruiters and colleges now lets talk Video I have taken alot for Football and I can not believe the quality and sound you would have thought I used a real video camera and not one from a camera it has surpassed what I have expected for a camera I am unbelievably happy with my purchase.Photos	Takes good quality of videos.Pic	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.Picture Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display Shutter lag (photography) Nikon D3100 Film speed Out of the box D5100 D7000	I changed the camera to P S A Picture Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display Shutter lag (photography) Nikon D3100 Film speed Out of the box D5100 D7000	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoPicture Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display Shutter lag (photography) Nikon D3100 Film speed Out of the box D5100 D7000	images from the D3100 are indistinguishable from the more expensive modelsPicture Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display Shutter lag (photography) Nikon D3100 Film speed Out of the box D5100 D7000	nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazingPicture Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display Shutter lag (photography) Nikon D3100 Film speed Out of the box D5100 D7000	great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modesPicture Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display Shutter lag (photography) Nikon D3100 Film speed Out of the box D5100 D7000	problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the settingPicture Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display Shutter lag (photography) Nikon D3100 Film speed Out of the box D5100 D7000	I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazingPicture Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display Shutter lag (photography) Nikon D3100 Film speed Out of the box D5100 D7000	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixelsPicture Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display Shutter lag (photography) Nikon D3100 Film speed Out of the box D5100 D7000	dont really mind the 230k dots screen its very bright and clear anyways compare to 900+ dotsPicture Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display Shutter lag (photography) Nikon D3100 Film speed Out of the box D5100 D7000	ight out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forPicture Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display Shutter lag (photography) Nikon D3100 Film speed Out of the box D5100 D7000	on dark venues the extra steps with the high ISO combined with large apertures on lenses provided the best combinationPicture Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display Shutter lag (photography) Nikon D3100 Film speed Out of the box D5100 D7000	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picturePicture Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display Shutter lag (photography) Nikon D3100 Film speed Out of the box D5100 D7000	better sensor  in the D5100 and D7000 at best has a bit more low light sensitivity but the overall images are not superiorPicture Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display Shutter lag (photography) Nikon D3100 Film speed Out of the box D5100 D7000	problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photosPicture Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display Shutter lag (photography) Nikon D3100 Film speed Out of the box D5100 D7000	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forPicture Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display Shutter lag (photography) Nikon D3100 Film speed Out of the box D5100 D7000	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitorPicture Is Slow  Autofocus Shutter (photography) button	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picturePicture Preview Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slowPicture Quality  Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Nikon D3100 Film speed Mode dial Firmware Kit Canon EF-S mount	I took some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very good.Picture Quality  Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Nikon D3100 Film speed Mode dial Firmware Kit Canon EF-S mount	  Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modesPicture Quality  Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Nikon D3100 Film speed Mode dial Firmware Kit Canon EF-S mount	there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photos.Picture Quality  Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Nikon D3100 Film speed Mode dial Firmware Kit Canon EF-S mount	  If you want sharp pictures you have to use P S A or M modes with the D3100.  There you can control the ISO manually or use Auto ISO and choose a lower maximum ISO setting. Picture Quality  Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Nikon D3100 Film speed Mode dial Firmware Kit Canon EF-S mount	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasPicture Quality  Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Nikon D3100 Film speed Mode dial Firmware Kit Canon EF-S mount	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Picture Quality  Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Nikon D3100 Film speed Mode dial Firmware Kit Canon EF-S mount	I took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality. I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer. The quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it. I also took a picture of a cherry tree that was about 30 yards away and then opened it up in Photoshop zoomed in and could see cherries that I could not even see with my eyes from the spot where I took the picture. I can not wait to get Canon 15-85mm f/3.5-5.6 EF-S Zoom Lens and than I will be in some serious businessPicture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	18MP StillsPicture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	Picture qualityPicture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	the 18.1MP sensorPicture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	pictures looked dull Picture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	The pictures looked dullPicture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	pictures are much much betterPicture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	  I changed the camera to P S A Picture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	amazed by the Canon T3i quality.Picture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	Very fast auto focus on shootingPicture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	very high ISO levels in Auto ModePicture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	pictures they are professional lookingPicture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	The grain was drowning out the detailsPicture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	 point and shoot the pictures are great.Picture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	Compared to my Kodak point and shoot the pictures are greatPicture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	some great shots for him to send to recruiters and collegesPicture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPPicture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	Compared to my Kodak point and shoot the pictures are great.Picture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	Compared to my Kodak point and shoot the pictures are great.Picture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	Compared to my Kodak point and shoot the pictures are great.Picture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	ok some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very goodPicture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screenPicture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazingPicture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	Ive taken some stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens comboPicture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forPicture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazingPicture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	I took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i qualityPicture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing.Picture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	I took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality.Picture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixelsPicture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Picture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	 there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the settingPicture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shadePicture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	my pictures they are professional looking my family and friends say and these are just on the automatic settingPicture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forPicture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.Picture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	You would expect Auto Modes to take easy great pictures in an entry level camera most people coming from point and shoot cameras.Picture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	 Picture quality on this t2i is stunning so many features that it will take me months to figure out how to really get the most out of this camera.Picture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Picture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for. Picture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for. Picture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for. Picture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	Picture quality on this t2i is stunning so many features that it will take me months to figure out how to really get the most out of this camera. I have done months ofPicture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	For a begginer in the professional photography area I definetly see an ocean of difference between the t2i and point and shoot cameras. Picture quality on this t2i is stunningPicture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	In addition if youd love to take beautiful portraits for your beloved ones Id highly recommend you to also get a Nikon 35mm f/1.8G AF-S DX Lens for Nikon Digital SLR Cameras. Picture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	I asked a good 10 friends of mine which camera out there was my best bang for my buck They all said the t2i or t3i its a great starter camera and will profuce amazing pictures as well. Picture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture. Picture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focusPicture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	They love their camera so I figured this was a good choice.  Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode so it acts like a point and shoot.  Compared to my Kodak point and shoot the pictures are great.Picture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	 took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality. I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer. Picture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.Picture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	You would expect Auto Modes to take easy great pictures in an entry level camera most people coming from point and shoot cameras.  If you want sharp pictures you have to use P S A or M modes with the D3100.  There you can control the ISO manually or use Auto ISO and choose a lower maximum ISO setting.Picture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	Camera is just amazing. For a begginer in the professional photography area I definetly see an ocean of difference between the t2i and point and shoot cameras. Picture quality on this t2i is stunning so many features that it will take me months to figure out how to really get the most out of this cameraPicture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	I sent that camera back and purchased a new one from Amazon.  Same problem.  Well I have since done some research and participated in forums and found out there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photos.Picture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	he pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Picture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	t teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.  I have learned more using that mode in one week than from the weeks Ive spent reading books and websites.  For the money I saved on the camera I was able to purchase a telephoto lens to go with it.  Worth every penny.  I look forward to many years of great photos.Picture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	 Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flashPicture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	Picture quality on this t2i is stunning so many features that it will take me months to figure out how to really get the most out of this camera. I have done months of research before buying this T2i 18-135mm model and according to the experts there is really not much difference betrween t2i and the t3i. for 150 bucks less I do not need a rotating screen and other minute extended features.Picture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flashPicture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changPicture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	I took some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very good. Also i loved the guide mode when in doubt use guide. The best part was the 1080P video. I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good and my wife who is very difficult to please liked it so much that she said that next time we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100  I guess now i can finally retire my mini DV video camera.Picture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	I researched several SLRs before deciding on the Canon T3i.  Im happy with my choice so far having purchased the camera first of all to take high quality photos of fairly small works of sculpture art using the Canon 60mm macro lens.  For that use the camera and lens seem to work very well.  I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip. Picture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	Well I have since done some research and participated in forums and found out there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photos.  You would expect Auto Modes to take easy great pictures in an entry level camera most people coming from point and shoot cameras.  If you want sharp pictures you have to use P S A or M modes with the D3100.  There you can control the ISO manually or use Auto ISO and choose a lower maximum ISO setting.  Apparently this is a discussed firmware issue but Nikon claimed they hadnt heard about it when I messaged themPicture Quality Nikon D3100 1080p Adobe Photoshop Point-and-shoot camera Camera D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Color balance Film Drowning Eastman Kodak 135 film Mode dial Ergonomics Macrophotography DV Telephoto Firmware Digital single-lens reflex Single-lens F-number 35 mm DX format Lens (optics) Wide-angle Angle Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Computer monitor Out of the box	Since I have switched from Nikon to Canon a lot of my review is based on comparison to Nikon.ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Picture Quality On Auto Mode 1080p	I took some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very good. Also i loved the guide mode when in doubt use guide. The best part was the 1080P videoPicture Quality On Auto Mode 1080p	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Picture Taking Shutter lag (photography)	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performancePictures	I get alot of great compliments on my pictures they are professional looking my family and friends say and these are just on the automatic settingPixel  Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens CMOS	Nikon D3100 16.2MP CMOS Digital SLR Camera with 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 AF-S DX VR Nikkor Zoom LensPixel Image stabilization	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iPixels Pixel Megapixel Canon (company) Digital camera Liquid crystal display Autofocus Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	pixelsPixels Pixel Megapixel Canon (company) Digital camera Liquid crystal display Autofocus Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	 It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Pixels Pixel Megapixel Canon (company) Digital camera Liquid crystal display Autofocus Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Playback Digital camera Liquid crystal display Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom lens Nikon Computer monitor Camera Single-lens reflex D3100	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Please Their Customers	ho please their customers Point And Shoot	the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for. Poor Battery Life	Battery life is not too greatPoor Iso Choice In Auto Mode Nikon D3100	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Poor Quality Material Velcro Shoe	material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyPoorly Built Visor Allows Light In	the biggest is this darn sun visorPortability Asymptotic giant branch Lightweight Minivan Odyssey	it wont weigh me downPortability Asymptotic giant branch Lightweight Minivan Odyssey	Light weight great body design.Portability Asymptotic giant branch Lightweight Minivan Odyssey	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lensPortability Asymptotic giant branch Lightweight Minivan Odyssey	extremely mobile. I can just flip open my tripod lock and GOPortability Asymptotic giant branch Lightweight Minivan Odyssey	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for tripsPortability Asymptotic giant branch Lightweight Minivan Odyssey	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Portability Asymptotic giant branch Lightweight Minivan Odyssey	Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.Portability Asymptotic giant branch Lightweight Minivan Odyssey	not very heavy.  It looks like it should be but does not feel like it is.  It appears to be a very sturdy cameraPortability Asymptotic giant branch Lightweight Minivan Odyssey	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Portability Asymptotic giant branch Lightweight Minivan Odyssey	Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all dayPortrait	 I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing.Position	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards. They would have rested on the middle seats.Previous Research Reassuring	I did a lot of research going into the purchasePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	veryPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	PricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	PricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	PricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	PricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	PricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	PricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	PricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	PricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	PricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	PricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	PricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	PricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	 PricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	 PricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	 PricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	priceyPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	priceyPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	priceyPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	usually Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Cons- PricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Cons- PricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Cons- PricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Cons- PricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	reasonable.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	139.99 119.9Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	This productPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	a bit expensivePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	a bit expensivePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Although priceyPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	wallet friendlyPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	wallet friendlyPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	wallet friendlyPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	wallet friendlyPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	wallet friendlyPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	wallet friendlyPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	wallet friendlyPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	a bit expensive Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	reasonable pricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	reasonable pricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	reasonable price Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	reasonable price Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	its wallet friendlyPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	its wallet friendlyPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	its wallet friendlyPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	its wallet friendlyPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	its wallet friendlyPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	its wallet friendlyPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	its wallet friendlyPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	its wallet friendlyPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	spending that much Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	worthy of purchase Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	hough a bit expensivePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	its wallet friendly aPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	isnt the cheapest seatPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	though a bit expensivePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Great Quality for PricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Great Quality for PricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	s- its wallet friendly Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Since initially postingPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	great deal for the pricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	great deal for the pricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	great deal for the pricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	price is very reasonablePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	price is very reasonablePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	price is very reasonablePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	price is very reasonablePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	 price is very reasonablePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	a great deal for the pricPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	great deal for the price.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Great value for the pricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	price is very reasonable.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	price is very reasonable.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	price is very reasonable.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	price is very reasonable.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	price is very reasonable.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	price is very reasonable.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	price is very reasonable.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	price is very reasonable.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	price is very reasonable.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	price is very reasonable.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	price is very reasonable.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	price is very reasonable.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	price is very reasonable.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	 great deal for the price.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	 price is very reasonable.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	a great deal for the pricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Bonus- its wallet friendlyPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Bonus- its wallet friendlyPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Bonus- its wallet friendlyPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Bonus- its wallet friendlyPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	great deal for the price. Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	  Bonus- its wallet friendlyPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	  Bonus- its wallet friendlyPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	the price is very reasonablePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	the price is very reasonable.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	the price is very reasonable.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	the price is very reasonable.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	the price is very reasonable.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	y nice car seat for the pricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	 the price is very reasonable.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	This is a great option for thosePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	very nice car seat for the pricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	very nice car seat for the pricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	the price in amazon is very cheapPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	the price in amazon is very cheapPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	the price in amazon is very cheapPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	wallet friendly and in this economyPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	  the price in amazon is very cheap.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	For the money the D3100 cant be beatPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	For the money the D3100 cant be beatPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	I feel like you get what you pay forPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	For the money the D3100 cant be beat.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	  For the money the D3100 cant be beat.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	 best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	digital photography at a reasonable pricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	I could not see myself spending that much Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	I could not see myself spending that much Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	I could not see myself spending that much Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Overall a very nice car seat for the pricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	 I could not see myself spending that much Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	I could not see myself spending that much .Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Overall a very nice car seat for the price.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Overall a very nice car seat for the price.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	you dont want to spend more money on lensesPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	 I could not see myself spending that much .Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	 Overall a very nice car seat for the price. Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	I found this to be a great deal for the pricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	I found this to be a great deal for the pricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	I found this to be a great deal for the pricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	I found this to be a great deal for the price.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	I found this to be a great deal for the price.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	I found this to be a great deal for the price.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	situation where you dont want to change lensesPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	eat I found this to be a great deal for the price. Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Graco SnugRide 30 Infant Car Seat Metropolis by GracoPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	great option for those of us who cant afford a BritaxPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Excellent camera though a bit expensive - worth every penny.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Decided to get t2i over t3i. . .and happy I did January 15 2012Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	PRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in pricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	I got it for 699  including the VR 55-200mm + camera bag with DVDPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	 well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	I got it for 699  including the VR 55-200mm + camera bag with DVD .Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the moneyPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the moneyPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	For the money the D3100 cant be beat.  What sold me was the guide mode.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonablePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	t is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	t is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Safety 1st Complete Air 65 Protect Convertible Car Seat Silver Leaf by DorelPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	The First Years True Fit Recline Convertible Car Seat City Chic by The First YearsPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	The First Years True Fit Recline Convertible Car Seat City Chic by The First YearsPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	money I saved on the camera I was able to purchase a telephoto lens to go with it. Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	 have probably saved  200-300  i would recommend this to anybody i know who is into DPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lensPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	  I researched for several weeks looking seriously at the Canon T2i and the Nikon D3100.  Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Save yourself the headache of working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	ts wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	 its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	 its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	 its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much .Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Nikon D3100 16.2MP CMOS Digital SLR Camera with 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 AF-S DX VR Nikkor Zoom LensPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	 If you see the video when shopping for a car seat I found this to be a great deal for the pricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	  Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	  Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much .Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much .Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much .Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	 Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much .Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEATPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEATPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable pricePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Overall a very nice car seat for the price. This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	 Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	PRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	PRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	PRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	PRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Nikon suggests certain memory cards that they certified to use with this camera.  Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or morePrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	  It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	 not much difference betrween t2i and the t3i. for 150 bucks less I do not need a rotating screen and other minute extended features.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	  It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	I chose the t2i over t3i because I didnt feel I would need to use the movable lcd screen and couldnt justify spending that much money on it.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usuallPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Canon EOS Rebel T2i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-inch LCD and and EF-S ... by CanonPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Canon EOS Rebel T3i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-Inch Clear View Vari-A... by CanonPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	.  This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much . But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 10Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	f you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Canon EOS Rebel T3i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-Inch Clear View Vari-Angle LCD and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS LensPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	 If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100. Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100. Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	This is my first DSLR and couldnt be more happier with this Purchase. Its been two weeks since i brought this camera from Bestbuy since it was out of stock at Amazon and also with 10Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	 Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	is is a great car seat. I did a lot of research on safety price etc. before buying this one.  I actually bought two one for my car and one for my husbands car.  We were very pleased with itPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Ive purchased SnugRides in the past but this is the first one to have a serious lack of adequate padding.  Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEATPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keepPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	I have done months of research before buying this T2i 18-135mm model and according to the experts there is really not much difference betrween t2i and the t3i. for 150 bucks less I do not need a rotating screen and other minute extended features.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	If your looking for a great Camera look no further you have found it  If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	If your looking for a great Camera look no further you have found it  If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Im glad to have this camera it has everything comparable to canon t2  1080p movie 14.2 mp 502g light weight. 3 inch screen . i dont really mind the 230k dots screen its very bright and clear anyways compare to 900+ dots  .  the price in amazon is very cheap.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much . But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing. My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	For ease of use IQ form factor it wont weigh me down etc. I feel as if the D3100 was a great purchase. Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well. Overall a very nice car seat for the price.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	I upgraded from a Canon 20D to this specific model after several hours of navigating product reviews and I dont regret it the other contenders were the T3i and T3 close  range and after careful though on ISO performance MPs price and features I decided that this model offered me the best balance. Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Im glad to have this camera it has everything comparable to canon t2  1080p movie 14.2 mp 502g light weight. 3 inch screen . i dont really mind the 230k dots screen its very bright and clear anyways compare to 900+ dots  .  the price in amazon is very cheap. I got it for 699  including the VR 55-200mm + camera bag with DVD .Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.  I am going to order another one of these for my husbands car.  It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	  the price in amazon is very cheap. I got it for 699  including the VR 55-200mm + camera bag with DVD .  i also used the transcend 32 gb class 10 from amazon for 50 work without any problems . also bought battery at amazon for 27  EN EL 14   way way  amazing purchase. i have probably saved  200-300  i would recommend this to anybody i know who is into DSLR.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	looking seriously at the Canon T2i and the Nikon D3100.  For the money the D3100 cant be beat.  What sold me was the guide mode.  It teaches you how to set up the camera for fantastic shots.  I have learned more using that mode in one week than from the weeks Ive spent reading books and websites.  For the money I saved on the camera I was able to purchase a telephoto lens to go with it.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasPrice Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	A few things I dont like but not many.  The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.  Also my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly.  It isnt hard to get back on and it is nice that it pops off so it can go on either side but it is annoying when he gets it off and starts throwing it around.  Of course it would be that or his toys or whatever else he could find if he couldnt get it off.  You do need a seat protector but youd need that with any car seat.  I also dont like some of the colors but that is personal preference.Overall were really happy with this car seat.  It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.Price Britax Nikon D3100 Wallet Lola language  Car seat Hyundai Elantra Telephoto lens Camera Canon (company) Sonata Child safety RICE (medicine) Digital photography Autofocus Lens (optics) Ultrasonic motor single-lens reflex camera AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Slow motion Kit Headache Hough Best Buy EOS 20D SEAT DIGIC APS-C EF-S mount 550D Image processing engine Liquid crystal display EF sensor CMOS 135 film This Life Dorel Simion stabilization 18-55mm 1080p Infant car Nikkor format Single-lens Shutter lag (photography) Wide-angle Flash Point-and-shoot Zoom Focus button Keep Inch	We got this car seat after being very happy with my sons First Years Via car seat.  He was too big already for the extra padding but we had him back facing in this seat for about six months and now have him forward facing.  Hes liked both ways.  I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars.  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.  Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.  I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.  Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.  Ive felt a lot of other car seats out there that feel like theyd be pretty hard to sit on and uncomfortable.A few things I dont like but not many.  The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.  Also my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly.  It isnt hard to get back on and it is nice that it pops off so it can go on either side but it is annoying when he gets it off and starts throwing it around.  Of course it would be that or his toys or whatever else he could find if he couldnt get it off.  You do need a seat protector but youd need that with any car seat.  I also dont like some of the colors but that is personal preference.Overall were really happy with this car seat.  It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.Price For Quality  Britax Wallet	wallet friendlyPrice For Quality  Britax Wallet	the price is very reasonablePrice For Quality  Britax Wallet	I found this to be a great deal for the price.Price For Quality  Britax Wallet	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.Price Of Lens Color balance Live preview Autofocus Focal length Canon (company) Shutter speed Viewfinder (photography) Camera Zoom lens Ultrasonic motor (optics) Film	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Price Saving Kit 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company)	And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.Price Value	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money. Price/availability Nikon AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G	I got it for 699  including the VR 55-200mm + camera bag with DVD Pricey And Flash Is Not Good	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so greatPricey But Great Camera Walkaround	Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body cameraPricing	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Pro & Con Autofocus Digital single-lens reflex camera Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Shutter 135 film Canon (company) lag Point-and-shoot UV filter Live preview Nikon D5000 Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Camera Film Color balance Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor Single-lens D3100	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOther Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Pro & Con Autofocus Digital single-lens reflex camera Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Shutter 135 film Canon (company) lag Point-and-shoot UV filter Live preview Nikon D5000 Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Camera Film Color balance Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor Single-lens D3100	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Pro & Con Autofocus Digital single-lens reflex camera Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Shutter 135 film Canon (company) lag Point-and-shoot UV filter Live preview Nikon D5000 Focal length speed Viewfinder Zoom Ultrasonic motor Camera Film Color balance Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor Single-lens D3100	ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Pro And Cons Minivan Odyssey	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Pro Child safety seat Britax	 It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. Pro Child safety seat Britax	 very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well. Overall a very nice car seat for the price. This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.Processor Image stabilization DIGIC Digital single-lens reflex camera APS-C Canon EF-S lens mount 18-55mm EOS processing engine (company) EF CMOS	Canon EOS Rebel T3i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-Inch Clear View Vari-Angle LCD and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS LensProcessor Image stabilization DIGIC Digital single-lens reflex camera APS-C Canon EF-S lens mount 18-55mm EOS processing engine (company) EF CMOS	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iProduct Description description (business)	the product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat.  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Product Info description (business)	It looks just as it is picturedProduct Info description (business)	product features and product description contradict each other Professionalism APS-C	This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.Pros And Cons	pros VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.  light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Pros Lightweight Digital single-lens reflex camera Canon (company) Shutter lag Autofocus 135 film (photography) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera Zoom Focus (optics) Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Nikon D5000 Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor Color balance Film Business day	Light weightPros Lightweight Digital single-lens reflex camera Canon (company) Shutter lag Autofocus 135 film (photography) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera Zoom Focus (optics) Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Nikon D5000 Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor Color balance Film Business day	Easy to operatePros Lightweight Digital single-lens reflex camera Canon (company) Shutter lag Autofocus 135 film (photography) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera Zoom Focus (optics) Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Nikon D5000 Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor Color balance Film Business day	T2i is the Best Entry Level DSLRPros Lightweight Digital single-lens reflex camera Canon (company) Shutter lag Autofocus 135 film (photography) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera Zoom Focus (optics) Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Nikon D5000 Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor Color balance Film Business day	Excellent Product came within 2 business days even though I did standard shipping. Fit my newborns head with the extra cushion that came with it.  Loved the colors as well. Works perfectly with the Snap N GPros Lightweight Digital single-lens reflex camera Canon (company) Shutter lag Autofocus 135 film (photography) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera Zoom Focus (optics) Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Nikon D5000 Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor Color balance Film Business day	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iCons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingPros Lightweight Digital single-lens reflex camera Canon (company) Shutter lag Autofocus 135 film (photography) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera Zoom Focus (optics) Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Nikon D5000 Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor Color balance Film Business day	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasPros Lightweight Digital single-lens reflex camera Canon (company) Shutter lag Autofocus 135 film (photography) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera Zoom Focus (optics) Image stabilization Liquid crystal display Nikon D5000 Live preview Focal length speed Viewfinder Ultrasonic motor Color balance Film Business day	Since I have switched from Nikon to Canon a lot of my review is based on comparison to Nikon.ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Protection	protects my little girl and it provides comfert for herPurchase Telephoto lens Lens (optics)	I am very happy about the decision.Purchase Telephoto lens Lens (optics)	couldnt be more happier with this PurchasePurchase Telephoto lens Lens (optics)	 I purchased the camera has been extremely gratifyingPurchase Telephoto lens Lens (optics)	 was able to purchase a telephoto lens to go with it.  Worth every penny.  I look forward to many years of great photos.Purchasing In Future Minivan Odyssey	I have a four year old and a two year old and they both love their true fit seats. Mommy loves them too. They are easy to install especially as compared to the graco one we bought first. The no rethread harness is awesome. The seat was comfortable looking and big enough rear facing all the way until two years old which is what the apa recommends.ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Overall we feel both our children are safe and would recommend this for long term use to friends and family members. We are contemplating buying two more so we have matching seats in both vehicles. They are worth every penny.Qua	enter. It fit fine and snug as can be. What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not blQuality And Price	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Quality Is Amazing	he quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it. I also took a picture of a cherry tree that was about 30 yards away aQuality Of Photos Firmware	Apparently this is a discussed firmware issue but Nikon claimed they hadnt heard about it when I messaged them...Quality Of PIcture	professional looking my family and friendsQuality Of Picture And Weight	I love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy.  It looks like it should be but does not feel like it is.  It appears to be a very sturdy camera.Quality Of Pictures Firmware Point-and-shoot camera	 I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Quality Of Pictures Firmware Point-and-shoot camera	Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modesQuality Of Pictures Firmware Point-and-shoot camera	  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Quality Of Videos	Takes good quality of videos.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	60fpsQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	rated Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	3.7 fpsQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	very durableQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	The quality is amazingQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	The quality is amazingQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	Excellent Beginners DSLRQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	Excellent Beginners DSLRQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	large Jpeg P-mode Quick AFQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	 chair is excellent qualityQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	akes good quality of videosQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	T3i greater then nikon 5100Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	 Low resolution of LCD screenQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	e chair is excellent quality.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	Takes good quality of videos.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	I changed the camera to P S A Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	The chair is excellent qualityQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	 grain/dull/no detailed photos.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	 is nice and heavy very durableQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	great in low lighting settings.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	The chair is excellent quality.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	The chair is excellent quality.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	Some pictures came out blue-ish.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	T2i is the Best Entry Level DSLRQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	the biggest is this darn sun visorQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	17in. wide infant car seat will do.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	it does a good job of taking picturesQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	It is a well made and designed car seatQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	It is a well made and designed car seatQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	really well constructed and pretty comfyQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	very nice fabric thats soft to the touchQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	excellent padding and very nice soft fabricQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	Hard to clean - Headrest pad does not come offQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	we dont need to compromise on quality or styleQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	we dont need to compromise on quality or style.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	high quality photos of fairly small works of sculpture artQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	Excellent camera though a bit expensive - worth every penny.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shootingQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	The quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	 material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazingQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed itQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or styleQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	 When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyesQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	I upgraded from nikon D50 to this. So of course the pictures are much much betterQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	I took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality. Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	 noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping foQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	he bottom line is that images from the D3100 are indistinguishable from the more expensive models. Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	 the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seatQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	enter. It fit fine and snug as can be. What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not blQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	 This body is rock solid and worthy of purchase for ANY and ALL people entering or needing an advanced DSLR camera. Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	The image sizes of the CMOS sensor allow me great latitude in adjusting and tweaking my RAW images anytime I wish to be creative.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	ne disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy. Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	 Picture quality on this t2i is stunning so many features that it will take me months to figure out how to really get the most out of this camera.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	 Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all dayQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surferQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	If you want sharp pictures you have to use P S A or M modes with the D3100.  There you can control the ISO manually or use Auto ISO and choose a lower maximum ISO setting.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. I highly recommend this it item.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	snap off the cup holder pretty quickly.  It isnt hard to get back on and it is nice that it pops off so it can go on either side but it is annoying when he gets it off and starts throwing it around. Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	 I also took a picture of a cherry tree that was about 30 yards away and then opened it up in Photoshop zoomed in and could see cherries that I could not even see with my eyes from the spot where I took the pictureQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keepQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick. One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	Excellent Product came within 2 business days even though I did standard shipping. Fit my newborns head with the extra cushion that came with it.  Loved the colors as well. Works perfectly with the Snap N Go stroller piece.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	 Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	I had been taking pictures with my roommates Canon EOS t2i for months and then I decided to get my own entry-level DSLR. Ive compared Canon EOS t2i with Nikon D3100 and finally I picked D3100. I am very happy about the decision.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	  Im happy with my choice so far having purchased the camera first of all to take high quality photos of fairly small works of sculpture art using the Canon 60mm macro lens.  For that use the camera and lens seem to work very well.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	. It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	Air 65 car seat that we have purchased so we could have one in each car.  I have a baby on the way and know the seat will be durable enough to withstand constant use through 2 children   Of course safety is our main concern but this seat is also stylish Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much . But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing. My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extraQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	I took some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very good. Also i loved the guide mode when in doubt use guide. The best part was the 1080P video. I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good and my wife who is very difficult to please liked it so much that she said that next time we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100  I guess now i can finally retire my mini DV video camera.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	I purchased a Nikon D3100 about a month ago and right out of the box I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.  The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camera to P S A Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Overall we feel both our children are safe and would recommend this for long term use to friends and family members. We are contemplating buying two more so we have matching seats in both vehicles. They are worth every penny.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	 took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality. I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer. The quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it. I also took a picture of a cherry tree that was about 30 yards away and then opened it up in Photoshop zoomed in and could see cherries that I could not even see with my eyes from the spot where I took the picture. I can not wait to get Canon 15-85mm f/3.5-5.6 EF-S Zoom Lens and than I will be in some serious business.Quality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	PROSFULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iCons If any No Flip-out LCD Not that much of an issue3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allNo audio recording level adjustAlmost no low light auto focus when taking long exposures of moon/stars/light paintingQuality Velcro Shoe SEAT Business day Minivan Odyssey Digital single-lens reflex camera Beginners Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Angle Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display Nikon D3100 Infant car seat Car Product description (business) Headrest IBM 5100 Kit Canon EF-S mount Macrophotography Computer monitor Megapixel Pixel (company) 1080p DV Camera Keep Frame rate Adobe Photoshop Film speed Mode dial Autofocus stabilization Asymptotic giant branch CMOS Britax Child safety EOS Manual focus	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Additionally with the side impact shaping its a very tight space to use the light blue head rests shown in the listing picture.  I havent tested it out yet but just from the appearance I can tell its not going to work.Ive purchased SnugRides in the past but this is the first one to have a serious lack of adequate padding.  Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEATQuality- Difficult To Clean	but I do NOT love cleaning itQuick And Easy Installation	VERY easy to install base in carRam	Ships fromRam	Ships fromRam	Ships fromRam	Ships fromRanking	 rated Rankings	I purchased this seat because it was rated Rate	 rated Rated #1 By Consumer Reports	 rated Rating DIGIC Digital single-lens reflex camera APS-C Canon EF-S lens mount 18-55mm EOS Image processing engine (company) EF CMOS	rated Rating DIGIC Digital single-lens reflex camera APS-C Canon EF-S lens mount 18-55mm EOS Image processing engine (company) EF CMOS	259 ReviewsRating DIGIC Digital single-lens reflex camera APS-C Canon EF-S lens mount 18-55mm EOS Image processing engine (company) EF CMOS	 highest safety rating.Rating DIGIC Digital single-lens reflex camera APS-C Canon EF-S lens mount 18-55mm EOS Image processing engine (company) EF CMOS	I purchased this seat because it was rated Rating DIGIC Digital single-lens reflex camera APS-C Canon EF-S lens mount 18-55mm EOS Image processing engine (company) EF CMOS	I purchased this seat because it was rated Rating DIGIC Digital single-lens reflex camera APS-C Canon EF-S lens mount 18-55mm EOS Image processing engine (company) EF CMOS	Canon EOS Rebel T3i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-Inch Clear View Vari-Angle LCD and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS LensRatings This Life Amazon.com	rated Ratings This Life Amazon.com	 rated Ratings This Life Amazon.com	 rated Ratings This Life Amazon.com	 rated Ratings This Life Amazon.com	Customer ReviewsRatings This Life Amazon.com	Graco Snugride Child Car SeatRatings This Life Amazon.com	I purchased this seat because it was rated Ratings This Life Amazon.com	I purchased this seat because it was rated Ratings This Life Amazon.com	The First Years True Fit Recline Convertible Car SeatRatings This Life Amazon.com	 I would recommend this product to anyone I knew who was in need of a good car seat.Ratings This Life Amazon.com	Amazon.com Customer Reviews Safety 1st Complete Air 65 Protect Convertible Car Seat Silver LeafRaw Pictures 1080p	s.  Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera.  Ive taken some stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens comboRear Facing Fit Pool noodle Noodle	If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction boRear Facing Keep Minivan Van Bench seat Pool noodle Noodle Positio	issues in rear facing positioRear Facing Keep Minivan Van Bench seat Pool noodle Noodle Positio	It is a big seat especially rear facing.Rear Facing Keep Minivan Van Bench seat Pool noodle Noodle Positio	  It is a big seat especially rear facing. Rear Facing Keep Minivan Van Bench seat Pool noodle Noodle Positio	  I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limitRear Facing Keep Minivan Van Bench seat Pool noodle Noodle Positio	The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my carRear Facing Keep Minivan Van Bench seat Pool noodle Noodle Positio	If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneathRear Facing Keep Minivan Van Bench seat Pool noodle Noodle Positio	 I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Rear Facing Keep Minivan Van Bench seat Pool noodle Noodle Positio	It is a big seat especially rear facing.  We have a Sienna mini van and we had them both on the bench seat.  Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards.Rear-facing Pool noodle Keep	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing positionRear-facing Pool noodle Keep	I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit.Rear-facing Pool noodle Keep	My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing.Rear-facing Pool noodle Keep	The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car.Rear-facing Pool noodle Keep	seat was comfortable looking and big enough rear facing all the way until two years oldRear-facing Pool noodle Keep	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards.Rear-facing Pool noodle Keep	If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Rear-facing Pool noodle Keep	 If you are going to use it rear facing you do need a rolled up towel or pool noodle underneath this is clear in the instruction booklet.Rear-facing Pool noodle Keep	I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Reasonable Price	price is very reasonableRecieved For Shower Baby Infant car seat	We asked for this as a Baby Shower gift back in 2010 when my daughter was born. Started to use it in Feb of this year my daughter is on the small side so she just outgrew the infant seat and LOVE IT  Easy to install via my hubby and my daughter seems to be more pleasant on car rides now that she can sit up and see more out of the windows in the back seat.We ordered another one for this review for my MILs car since she cares for my daughter 2 days a week. Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do. Again my little girl likes being in the seat and able to look out of the windows at the world around her. I would recommend this product to anyone I knew who was in need of a good car seat.Reclination	recline it at 3 different levelsRecline	djustable you can reclineRecline	you can recline it at 3 different levelReclines This Life	The First Years True Fit Recline Convertible Car SeatRecommendation Firmware Point-and-shoot camera	Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes.Remote Image resolution Liquid crystal display Display	No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. Removable Fabric	The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Removable Head Rest Headrest	head rest is removableRemovable Head Rest Headrest	head rest is removableRemovable Head Rest Headrest	head rest is removableRemovable Head Rest Headrest	head rest is removableRemovable Head Rest Headrest	the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still smallRemovable Head Rest Headrest	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Removable Head Rest Headrest	  My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.Removable Parts  Car seat Hyundai Elantra	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.  Also my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly.  It isnt hard to get back on and it is nice that it pops off so it can go on either side but it is annoying when he gets it off and starts throwing it around.  Of course it would be that or his toys or whatever else he could find if he couldnt get it off.  You do need a seat protector but youd need that with any car seat.  I also dont like some of the colors but that is personal preference.Repeat Hyundai Sonata Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for. Repeat Hyundai Sonata Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability	Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all carsReplacement At No Charge Velcro	seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material Resolution CMOS Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display Adobe Photoshop 1080p Scree	ow resolution of LCD screeResolution CMOS Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display Adobe Photoshop 1080p Scree	Low resolution of LCD screenResolution CMOS Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display Adobe Photoshop 1080p Scree	The best part was the 1080P video.Resolution CMOS Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display Adobe Photoshop 1080p Scree	 It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixelsResolution CMOS Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display Adobe Photoshop 1080p Scree	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPResolution CMOS Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display Adobe Photoshop 1080p Scree	the 18.1MP sensor.....WOW  The image sizes of the CMOS sensor allow me great latitude in adjusting and tweaking my RAW images anytime I wish to be creative.Resolution CMOS Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display Adobe Photoshop 1080p Scree	I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer.Resolution CMOS Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display Adobe Photoshop 1080p Scree	 Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.Response	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Responsiveness British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Keep Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Responsiveness British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Keep Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhyResponsiveness British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Keep Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder	Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.Reviews	rated Reviews	rated Reviews	highest safety ratingRight Hand Grip	 very adequate right hand grip Right-hand Grip	The T2i is FAST.Room	ittle roomierRoom	so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inRoom	I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seatRoom	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Roominess	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Roomy	roomierRoomy	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Rugged Enough	 rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day.  I haSa	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.Safe And Adjustable	side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. I highly recommend this it itemSafe And Comfortable	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.  Some seats seemed too bulky and I know my daughter would be a sweaty mess in those styles.  This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped in.Safe And Secure	 My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Safest Baby Seat On Market	it has the highest safety rating.Safety Safety  Ins Switzerland 	hen you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is levelSafety Safety  Ins Switzerland 	seat. I did a lot of research on safety price etc. before buying this one.  I actually bought two one for my car and one for my husbands car.  We were very pleased with it.  Both were delivered super fast and in perfect condition.  InsSafety FEatures	 it has the highest safety rating.Safety FEatures	 its very comfortable and appears to be very safeSafety FEatures	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move aroundSafety First Amazon.com	Amazon.com Customer Reviews Safety 1st Complete Air 65 Protect Convertible Car Seat Silver LeafSafety Rating	rated Safety Rating	highest safety ratingSafety Rating	it has the highest safety rating.Safety Rating	I chose it because it has the highest safety rating.Safety Tested	It is side crash testedSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	 rated Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	safety Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	safety Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	 safety wSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	 NO padding. Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	side crash testedSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	side crash testedSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	side crash testedSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	side crash tested Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	side crash tested Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	doesnt move around.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Im sure this is safeSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	The seat is giganticSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	he is safe and secureSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	highest safety ratingSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	highest safety ratingSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	highest safety ratingSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	highest safety ratingSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	highest safety ratingSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	highest safety ratingSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	highest safety ratingSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	highest safety ratingSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	absolutely NO padding.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	highest safety rating.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	highest safety rating.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	highest safety rating.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	 highest safety rating.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	appears to be very safeSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	appears to be very safeSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	appears to be very safeSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	appears to be very safeSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	appears to be very safeSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	t is side crash tested Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	 highest safety rating. Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	 It is side crash testedSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	It is side crash tested Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	It is side crash tested Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	It is side crash tested Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	confident that he is safeSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	the highest safety ratingSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	ice and heavy very durableSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	it protects my little girlSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	holds the girls very secureSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Im sure this is safe enoughSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Im sure this is safe enoughSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	it protects my little girl Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	as the highest safety ratingSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	easly instaled it in the car.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	 Im confident that he is safe Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	It holds the girls very secureSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	it has the highest safety ratingSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	it has the highest safety ratingSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	it has the highest safety rating.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	safety was my number one prioritySafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	 because they did not fit backwardSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	we feel both our children are safeSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	 we feel both our children are safeSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Im confident that he is safe and secureSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Im confident that he is safe and secure.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Im confident that he is safe and secure.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Im confident that he is safe and secure. Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Overall we feel both our children are safeSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	buckle system is heavy duty and easy to useSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	I purchased this seat because it was rated Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	comfortable and Im confident that he is safeSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	side crash tested and the base is adjustableSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	 very comfortable and appears to be very safeSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	 chose it because it has the highest safety ratingSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	 its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	It holds the girls very secure and they love them.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	It is side crash tested and the base is adjustableSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	 chose it because it has the highest safety rating.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	 It is side crash tested and the base is adjustableSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	I chose it because it has the highest safety ratingSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	I chose it because it has the highest safety ratingSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	I chose it because it has the highest safety ratingSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	I chose it because it has the highest safety ratingSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	I chose it because it has the highest safety rating.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	I chose it because it has the highest safety rating.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	  I chose it because it has the highest safety ratingSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	  I chose it because it has the highest safety rating.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	protects my little girl and it provides comfert for herSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenientSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	 but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	I did a lot of research on safety price etc. before buying this onSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Also my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quicklySafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	  Also my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quicklSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secureSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secureSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Other than the issues in rear facing position this is a terrific seat.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seatSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	 other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facingSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	 My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Rear facing is the safest way for small children to travel when in a carSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small. Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	our snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is levelSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	 Im sure this is safe enough but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	he biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulkSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulkSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move aroundSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move aroundSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move aroundSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move aroundSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move aroundSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	  Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	This is the second Safety 1st complete Air 65 car seat that we have purchased so we could have one in each car.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	  Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around. Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	This is the second Safety 1st complete Air 65 car seat that we have purchased so we could have one in each car. Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Overall we feel both our children are safe and would recommend this for long term use to friends and family membersSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulkSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulkSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulkSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. I highly recommend this it item.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	 Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as wellSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	 One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.  I also find it really easy to installSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	 I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	 this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyesSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves itSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	 it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it. Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit.  It is so high in fact that my 3 1/2 year old would still be able to be rear facing in this seatSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit.  It is so high in fact that my 3 1/2 year old would still be able to be rear facing in this seatSafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Normally he literally fights and struggles when it is time to get into the the car but not this time. I love this chair  My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Overall we feel both our children are safe and would recommend this for long term use to friends and family members. We are contemplating buying two more so we have matching seats in both vehicles. They are worth every pennySafety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Currently the product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat.  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	 Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.  I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.  Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it. Im just thinking how happy she will be when she gets turned around in a few months. This will even work for newborns. if I had known that I would have gotten this a long time ago.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	We are using this as a rear facing seat in our Chevy Malibu and it fits just fine. Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	We are using this as a rear facing seat in our Chevy Malibu and it fits just fine. Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	.  I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars.  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.  Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.  Some seats seemed too bulky and I know my daughter would be a sweaty mess in those styles.  This seat seems to breathe so she remains a comfortable temperature while securely strapped in.  The seat is easy to install and buckle her into as well.  This is the second Safety 1st complete Air 65 car seat that we have purchased so we could have one in each car.  I have a baby on the way and know the seat will be durable enough to withstand constant use through 2 children   Of course safety is our main concern but this seat is also stylish Safety Toddler Out of the box Nissan Sentra Headrest Product description (business) Chevrolet Malibu Child safety seat Car Hyundai Sonata Velcro Shoe Infant car Keep Sun visor UV filter	The car seat was delivered one day after I ordered it online. Which was outstanding. I took it out of the box and my 2 year old became giddy with excitement. Normally he literally fights and struggles when it is time to get into the the car but not this time. I love this chair  My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure. I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra. As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once.Safety With Rear Seat Faceing	Other than the issues in rear facing position this is a terrific seat.Saftey	  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Saftey	my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly.  It isnt hard to get back on and it is nice that it pops off so it can go on either side but it is annoying when he gets it off and starts throwing it around.Same As Above Manual focus Canon (company)	video manual focus on the Canon and alsSame As Above Manual focus Canon (company)	 noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping for.Same As Earlier Version	has a good feel to it and overall has the same features as the T2i.Satisfaction	great purchase for our family.Satisfaction	Seriously disappointed with this carseat Satisfaction	he correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Save About $100 Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics)	 The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spenSaving Formats JPEG	I have the camera saving in both RAW and JPEG until I can get familiar enough to switch completely to RAWSaving money Sony Radio Academy Awards	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.  I conducted countless hours of research on Canons Nikons and even Sonys.  Scratchy Velcro Shoe	seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchyScreeen Nikon D7000 D5100 Image sensor Canon EOS 60D Liquid crystal display Camera lens (company) Autofocus	I looked at many items before pulling the trigger on the Canon T3i. I went to Best buy and tested out the Canon T2i the Nikon D5100 the Canon 60D and the Nikon D7000. After testing out all the products I came to the decision that the only cameras I liked that felt good in my hand were the Canon T2i Nikon D5100 and the Can T3i. I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal. The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am sure the Nikon D5100 is a spectacular camera and it sports a larder image sensor than the Canon. I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.Screen 1080p Inch Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Canon (company) Display Computer monitor Articulating screen stabilization Camera	DigitalScreen 1080p Inch Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Canon (company) Display Computer monitor Articulating screen stabilization Camera	DigitalScreen 1080p Inch Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Canon (company) Display Computer monitor Articulating screen stabilization Camera	articulating LCD screen.Screen 1080p Inch Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Canon (company) Display Computer monitor Articulating screen stabilization Camera	 articulating LCD screen.Screen 1080p Inch Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Canon (company) Display Computer monitor Articulating screen stabilization Camera	Low resolution of LCD screen.Screen 1080p Inch Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Canon (company) Display Computer monitor Articulating screen stabilization Camera	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraScreen 1080p Inch Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Canon (company) Display Computer monitor Articulating screen stabilization Camera	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraScreen 1080p Inch Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Canon (company) Display Computer monitor Articulating screen stabilization Camera	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.Screen 1080p Inch Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Canon (company) Display Computer monitor Articulating screen stabilization Camera	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.Screen 1080p Inch Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Canon (company) Display Computer monitor Articulating screen stabilization Camera	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen.Screen 1080p Inch Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Canon (company) Display Computer monitor Articulating screen stabilization Camera	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels.Screen 1080p Inch Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Canon (company) Display Computer monitor Articulating screen stabilization Camera	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Screen 1080p Inch Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Canon (company) Display Computer monitor Articulating screen stabilization Camera	The articulating screen wasnt necessary yet it IS what made me choose this model over the T2iScreen 1080p Inch Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Canon (company) Display Computer monitor Articulating screen stabilization Camera	I especially like the articulated LCD screen on the back of the camera that allows it to be positioned so that otherwise very awkward camera positions ie overhead or low to the ground are easily possible.Screen 1080p Inch Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Canon (company) Display Computer monitor Articulating screen stabilization Camera	Im glad to have this camera it has everything comparable to canon t2  1080p movie 14.2 mp 502g light weight. 3 inch screen . i dont really mind the 230k dots screen its very bright and clear anyways compare to 900+ dots  . Screen 1080p Inch Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Canon (company) Display Computer monitor Articulating screen stabilization Camera	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.Screen 1080p Inch Image resolution Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Canon (company) Display Computer monitor Articulating screen stabilization Camera	 Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.Screen Picture Quality Image resolution Liquid crystal display Pixel Canon (company) Display	Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixelSculptural Art	camera first of all to take high quality photos of fairly small works of sculpture artSd Card Price Secure Digital JPEG	Nikon suggests certain memory cards that they certified to use with this camera.  Most of these for an 8GB card are 50 or more.  I purchased two Transcend 8GB Class 10 SDHC Card TS8GSDHC10 from Amazon and so far these have been amazing.  I have the camera saving in both RAW and JPEG until I can get familiar enough to switch completely to RAW.  Saving in this format is 20MB a picture and this card has no trouble keeping up.Seat	Now for the cons.  The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car.Seat Cover Material Velcro Shoe Customer service	So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.Seat Cover Material Velcro Shoe Customer service	While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh.Seat Cover Material Velcro Shoe Customer service	seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchySeat Cover Material Velcro Shoe Customer service	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our cars. Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin. Seat Cover Material Velcro Shoe Customer service	  I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  Seat Cover Material Velcro Shoe Customer service	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchySeat Cover Material Velcro Shoe Customer service	 One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy. Seat Cover Material Velcro Shoe Customer service	difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick. One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it Seat Cover Quality	middle section is made of meshSeat Cover Quality	eat cover is made of a materialSeat Cover Quality	soft and fuzzy very comfortableSeat Cover Velcro Shoe	seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchySeat Cover Velcro Shoe	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchySeat Material Velcro Shoe Vomiting	excellent padding and very nice soft fabric.Seat Material Velcro Shoe Vomiting	Material is easy to clean and comfortable on my babys skin.Seat Material Velcro Shoe Vomiting	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Seat Material Velcro Shoe Vomiting	but this is the first one to have a serious lack of adequate padding.Seat Material Velcro Shoe Vomiting	This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well.Seat Material Velcro Shoe Vomiting	One disappointment was that the seat cover is made of a material where the velcro on my sons shoes frayed it and the seat cover became scratchy.Seat Material Velcro Shoe Vomiting	So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to wash.  Im having quite an interesting time getting the nasty puke smell out of it.Seat Padding	the seat seams padded wellSeat Padding	where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingSeat Padding	where the baby sits there is absolutely NO paddingSeat Padding	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Seat Padding	Seriously disappointed with this carseat  Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.  For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Seat Protector	You do need a seat protectorSeat Quaity Chevrolet Malibu Belching	I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.Seat Quaity Chevrolet Malibu Belching	If you see the video when shopping for a car seat I found this to be a great deal for the price. I understand each car seat has to meet standards but I have been please with this one and my husband just purchased an extra one to have in his 06Nissan Frontier.Seat Quaity Chevrolet Malibu Belching	 have a four year old and a two year old and they both love their true fit seats. Mommy loves them too. They are easy to install especially as compared to the graco one we bought first. The no rethread harness is awesome. The seat was comfortable looking and big enough rear facing all the way until two years old which is what the apa recommends.Seat Quaity Chevrolet Malibu Belching	We are using this as a rear facing seat in our Chevy Malibu and it fits just fine. Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Im glad we had the Chicco Keyfit 30 when our guy was an infant. Im sure this is safe enough but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient. Even though my son isnt quiet 1 yet he was ready for a more toddler friendly seat. This delivers he isnt leaning back as far and the sides dont cave in next to him. I could tell he liked having things a little roomier the moment I put him in this seat. He still falls asleep with ease.Seat Seam Padded Well And Comfortable	  Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.  Ive felt a lot of other car seats out there that feel like theyd be pretty hard to sit on and uncomfoSeat Size Nissan Sentra Infant 	seat is big Seat Size Nissan Sentra Infant 	It is a big seat especially rear facingSeat Size Nissan Sentra Infant 	 Im sure this is safe enough but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient. Even though my son isnt quiet 1 yet he was ready for a more toddler friendly seat.Seat Size Nissan Sentra Infant 	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge carSeat Size Nissan Sentra Infant 	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.Seat Size Nissan Sentra Infant 	The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra. As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over onceSeating	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inSecurity	t holds the girls very secure and they love theSensor Nikon D5100 Advanced Photo System DX format Image noise	The nikon D5100 has a better larger DX sensor vs canon APS sized sensor sensor.Sensor Nikon D5100 Advanced Photo System DX format Image noise	The nikon D5100 has a better larger DX sensor vs canon APS sized sensor sensor. So less noise on the Nikon.Sensors CMOS	. The macro features are also on par with its more advanced and WAY higher priced big brothers to this camera. Now the 18.1MP sensor.....WOW  The image sizes of the CMOS sensor allow me great latitude in adjusting and tweaking my RAW images anytime I wish to be creative.Serious Photography	There are very many accessories and lenses for this camera.  If you want to really get serious about photography or video making then get THIS camera.Service Customer service Suede Plush Infant car seat Britax	customer serviceService Customer service Suede Plush Infant car seat Britax	Canon service is apparently better than nikonService Customer service Suede Plush Infant car seat Britax	Canon service is apparently better than nikonService Customer service Suede Plush Infant car seat Britax	Canon service is apparently better than nikon.Service Customer service Suede Plush Infant car seat Britax	Canon service is apparently better than nikon.Service Customer service Suede Plush Infant car seat Britax	Canon service is apparently better than nikon.Service Customer service Suede Plush Infant car seat Britax	Canon service is apparently better than nikon.Service Customer service Suede Plush Infant car seat Britax	Canon service is apparently better than nikon.Service Customer service Suede Plush Infant car seat Britax	Canon service is apparently better than nikon. Service Customer service Suede Plush Infant car seat Britax	sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised.Service Customer service Suede Plush Infant car seat Britax	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Service Customer service Suede Plush Infant car seat Britax	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge Service Customer service Suede Plush Infant car seat Britax	After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base.Service Customer service Suede Plush Infant car seat Britax	  We are able to use our Britax Marathon a Graco booster and this infant car seat all in one row.  This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  IService Customer service Suede Plush Infant car seat Britax	I emailed customer service with pictures and they sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised. Definitely worth doing business with companies who please their customers Settings Nikon D3100 Film speed Autofocus Shutter (photography) button D5100 Canon (company)	No audio recording level adjustSettings Nikon D3100 Film speed Autofocus Shutter (photography) button D5100 Canon (company)	I noticed the Auto point and shoot Mode was not taking the quality of pictures I was hoping forSettings Nikon D3100 Film speed Autofocus Shutter (photography) button D5100 Canon (company)	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Settings Nikon D3100 Film speed Autofocus Shutter (photography) button D5100 Canon (company)	he reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. Settings Nikon D3100 Film speed Autofocus Shutter (photography) button D5100 Canon (company)	Same problem.  Well I have since done some research and participated in forums and found out there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.Seurity	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secureShoot Modes Firmware Point-and-shoot camera	just not in the auto point and shoot modes.Shoot Modes Firmware Point-and-shoot camera	Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes.Shooting Speed Keep Nikon D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Camera Color balance Film	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhyShooting Speed Keep Nikon D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Camera Color balance Film	Since I have switched from Nikon to Canon a lot of my review is based on comparison to Nikon.ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Shoots Great In Low Light	Im a film student and was trying to decide between a t3i and Nikon 5100. everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera. the 600d has better continuous recording you have better manual capabilities. after a lot research i decided to go with the canon i went with a t3i and not a t2i for the flip around screen. i shoot in awkward positions sometimes and it defiantly comes in handy. i would recommend this camera over any one on the market and shoots great in low lighting settings. all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels natural. my favorite thing is the dedicated iso button making it easy to change quickly.Shutter lag (photography)	Minimal shutter lagShutter lag (photography)	T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delaysShutter Lag lag (photography) Autofocus	Minimal shutter lagShutter Lag lag (photography) Autofocus	 Very fast auto focus on shooting.Shutter Lag lag (photography) Autofocus	 shutter and the camera will instantly take a pictureShutter Speed lag (photography) Burst mode Keep Autofocus Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button	Slower than T2i Shutter Speed lag (photography) Burst mode Keep Autofocus Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button	Minimal shutter lagShutter Speed lag (photography) Burst mode Keep Autofocus Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button	What sold me was the guide modeShutter Speed lag (photography) Burst mode Keep Autofocus Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button	3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allShutter Speed lag (photography) Burst mode Keep Autofocus Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoShutter Speed lag (photography) Burst mode Keep Autofocus Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Shutter Speed lag (photography) Burst mode Keep Autofocus Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Shutter Speed lag (photography) Burst mode Keep Autofocus Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Shutter Speed lag (photography) Burst mode Keep Autofocus Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button	rs the 3.7 fps its supposed to.  It makes a huge difference knowing you can press the shutter andShutter Speed lag (photography) Burst mode Keep Autofocus Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button	  The T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to.  It makes a huge difference knowing you can press the shutter and the camera will instantly take a pictureShutter Speed lag (photography) Burst mode Keep Autofocus Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhyShutter Speed lag (photography) Burst mode Keep Autofocus Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasShutter Speed lag (photography) Burst mode Keep Autofocus Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button	  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to.  It makes a huge difference knowing you can press the shutter and the camera will instantly take a picture.  The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Shutter Speed lag (photography) Burst mode Keep Autofocus Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button	The T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to.  It makes a huge difference knowing you can press the shutter and the camera will instantly take a picture.  The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Shutterlag Shutter lag (photography)	Minimal shutter lagSide Crash Tested	I absolutely love this car seat. It looks just as it is pictured comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels. I highly recommend this it item.Simplicity Usability Ease (programming language)	Ease of useSimplicity Usability Ease (programming language)	Easy to operate.Simplicity Usability Ease (programming language)	 Easy to operate.Simplicity Usability Ease (programming language)	 The material is easy to take offSimplicity Usability Ease (programming language)	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.Size (big)  Car seat Hyundai Elantra	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.  Also my son figured out how to snap off the cup holder pretty quickly.  It isnt hard to get back on and it is nice that it pops off so it can go on either side but it is annoying when he gets it off and starts throwing it around.  Of course it would be that or his toys or whatever else he could find if he couldnt get it off.  You do need a seat protector but youd need that with any car seat.  I also dont like some of the colors but that is personal preference.Size (lightweight)	 not very heavySize (lightweight)	 Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Size For V	would onlt fit in the 2nd row in the middle seating position so that it came up almost through the 2 front seatsSize For Ve	Very bulkySize For Vehicle Hyundai Sonata Infant car seat Car Mid-size Minivan Odyssey 	pretty bigSize For Vehicle Hyundai Sonata Infant car seat Car Mid-size Minivan Odyssey 	The seat is gigantic.Size For Vehicle Hyundai Sonata Infant car seat Car Mid-size Minivan Odyssey 	 Although the seat is bigSize For Vehicle Hyundai Sonata Infant car seat Car Mid-size Minivan Odyssey 	has fit really well in all carsSize For Vehicle Hyundai Sonata Infant car seat Car Mid-size Minivan Odyssey 	 little tricky to get it in. Tight fitSize For Vehicle Hyundai Sonata Infant car seat Car Mid-size Minivan Odyssey 	It is a big seat especially rear facing.Size For Vehicle Hyundai Sonata Infant car seat Car Mid-size Minivan Odyssey 	They would have rested on the middle seatsSize For Vehicle Hyundai Sonata Infant car seat Car Mid-size Minivan Odyssey 	figure that a 17in. wide infant car seat will doSize For Vehicle Hyundai Sonata Infant car seat Car Mid-size Minivan Odyssey 	fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti.Size For Vehicle Hyundai Sonata Infant car seat Car Mid-size Minivan Odyssey 	purchased an extra one to have in his 06Nissan Frontier.Size For Vehicle Hyundai Sonata Infant car seat Car Mid-size Minivan Odyssey 	is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Tight fit Size For Vehicle Hyundai Sonata Infant car seat Car Mid-size Minivan Odyssey 	could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drivesSize For Vehicle Hyundai Sonata Infant car seat Car Mid-size Minivan Odyssey 	Other than the issues in rear facing position this is a terrific seat.Size For Vehicle Hyundai Sonata Infant car seat Car Mid-size Minivan Odyssey 	The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car. Size For Vehicle Hyundai Sonata Infant car seat Car Mid-size Minivan Odyssey 	17in. wide infant car seat will do.  I believe this is the only one that fits our needSize For Vehicle Hyundai Sonata Infant car seat Car Mid-size Minivan Odyssey 	This seat would onlt fit in the 2nd row in the middle seating position so that it came up almost through the 2 front seats.Size For Vehicle Hyundai Sonata Infant car seat Car Mid-size Minivan Odyssey 	Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra Size For Vehicle Hyundai Sonata Infant car seat Car Mid-size Minivan Odyssey 	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car okSize For Vehicle Hyundai Sonata Infant car seat Car Mid-size Minivan Odyssey 	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.Size In Smaller Cars 	 but it could be in some of the smaller cars out thereSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	bigger Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	giganticSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Very bulkySize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Very bulkySize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Very bulkySize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Very bulky.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Very bulky.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Very bulky.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Very bulky.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Very bulky.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Very bulky.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Very bulky.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Very bulky.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	is gigantic.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	little smallSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	light weight Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	a big car seatSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	fits just fine.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	the seat is bigSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	e seat is big whSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	too inconvenient.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	work for newbornsSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	 size is pretty bigSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	t is a big car seatSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	it is a big car seatSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	it is a big car seatSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	it is a big car seatSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	it is a big car seatSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The seat is giganticSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The seat is giganticSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The seat is giganticSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The seat is giganticSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The seat is giganticSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The seat is giganticSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The seat is giganticSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The seat is giganticSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	 it is a big car seatSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	 it is a big car seatSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Somewhat Compact sizeSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Somewhat Compact sizeSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The seat is gigantic.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The seat is gigantic.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The seat is gigantic.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The seat is gigantic.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The seat is gigantic.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The seat is gigantic.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	 it is a big car seat Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The size is pretty bigSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The size is pretty bigSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The size is pretty bigSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The size is pretty bigSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The size is pretty bigSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The size is pretty bigSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The size is pretty bigSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The size is pretty bigSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The size is pretty bigSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The size is pretty bigSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	  The seat is gigantic.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	so I dont mind the bulkSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The seat is gigantic.  Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	  The size is pretty bigSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Although the seat is bigSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Awesome but a little bigSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Big enough for a toddlerSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Big enough for a toddlerSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Big enough for a toddlerSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Big enough for a toddlerSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Big enough for a toddlerSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Big enough for a toddlerSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Big enough for a toddlerSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Big enough for a toddlerSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Big enough for a toddlerSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Big enough for a toddlerSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	igure that a 17in. wide Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Yes it is a big car seatSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	17in. wide infant car seatSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Somewhat Compact sizeEase of useSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Somewhat Compact sizeEase of useSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	 the biggest is this darn sun visorSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	it has fit really well in all cars.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	it has fit really well in all cars.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Big enough for a toddlerEasy to installSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	It is a big seat especially rear facingSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	It is a big seat especially rear facingSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Now for the cons.  The seat is giganticSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	It is a big seat especially rear facing.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Now for the cons.  The seat is gigantic.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	  It is a big seat especially rear facingSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Now for the cons.  The seat is gigantic. Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	  It is a big seat especially rear facing. Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	ight fit but does the job its supposed to do.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	light weight and fits well in the middle seatSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbsSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do. Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	It is as many have explained before a little smallSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much roomSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out thereSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out thereSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle beltSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	I have a 2003 Maxima which has a slight bump in the middleSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Tight fitSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Fit my newborns head with the extra cushion that came with it.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Install was exteremly easy and it fit well in both of our carsSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenient.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it inSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infinitiSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infinitiSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	This seat would onlt fit in the 2nd row in the middle seating positionSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	 head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still smallSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	We started shopping around and figure that a 17in. wide infant car seat will doSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	he seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my carSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	he seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car. Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	 with the side impact shaping its a very tight space to use the light blue head restsSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	 its a very tight space to use the light blue head rests shown in the listing picture.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	 with the side impact shaping its a very tight space to use the light blue head rests Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Im sure this is safe enough but I wouldnt want it as an infant seat . . . too inconvenientSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	It is side crash tested and the base is adjustable you can recline it at 3 different levels.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	We are able to use our Britax Marathon a Graco booster and this infant car seat all in one row.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Additionally with the side impact shaping its a very tight space to use the light blue head restsSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortabilitySize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home inSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Now for the cons.  The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my carSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Now for the cons.  The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out thereSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out thereSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out thereSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out thereSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	  The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out thereSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small. Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwardsSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	 Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Tight fit but does the job its supposed to do. Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards. Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfySize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	 it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy. Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	We started shopping around and figure that a 17in. wide infant car seat will do.  I believe this is the only one that fits our need.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car. I currently live in Japan where my hubby is currently stationed with the USMCSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	 a high rear facing weight and height limit.  It is so high in fact that my 3 1/2 year old would still be able to be rear facing in this seat.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	It is as many have explained before a little small as I was used to the bigger and heavier 20D body but I guess is just a matter of getting used to it.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	  The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car. I currently live in Japan where my hubby is currently stationed with the USMC. Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra. As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra. As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	  I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit.  It is so high in fact that my 3 1/2 year old would still be able to be rear facing in this seat.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all carsSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all carsSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	  The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge cSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge carSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge carSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge carSize Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car. Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	  The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	  The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	.  The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out there although it does fit just fine in my husbands Elantra and that isnt a huge car.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. However I could not put it behind the drivers seat when my 510  husband drives. Not really an issue since the middle is the safest position.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	r seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	We love these carseats.  It is a big seat especially rear facing.  We have a Sienna mini van and we had them both on the bench seat.  Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwards.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	 But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazing. My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in. I read reviews that it was difficult to install in car but it was easy if you read the instructions.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	 Yes it is a big car seat but safety was my number one priority when upgrading to a toddler car seat so I dont mind the bulk. I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durable and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. This also has very nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as well. Overall a very nice car seat for the price.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars.  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfy.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	I dont know if anyone else feels this way but trying to install a car seat is just the worst task ever. The process here was like a dream brought to life. The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right. Although the seat is big which I love I was able to fit it easily and securely in the back of my Nissan Sentra.Size Infant car seat Mid-size Car  Child safety Hyundai Sonata Toddler Headrest Chevrolet Astro Japan Wallet Minivan Odyssey Keep Nissan Sentra Canon EOS 20D Lightweight Britax United States Marine Corps Van Bench	The seat is gigantic.  When rear facing it would only fit in one postion in my car. I currently live in Japan where my hubby is currently stationed with the USMC.  We drive a large van similar to the old Chevy Astro van.  This seat would onlt fit in the 2nd row in the middle seating position so that it came up almost through the 2 front seats.  I doubt this seat would fit into any other position in any car.  My other con is that it was extremely difficult to install it rear facing. Between my 3 kids Ive been through about 6 different convertible car seats in the past 8 years and this one was by far the most difficult to install rear facing with the vehicle belt.  At one point or another Ive had to install all of my previous car seats rear facing with the vehicle belt.  The instructions say to lift the seat pad when threading the belt through which I did but then once the seat was installed I couldnt get the pad back down over the seat where it was against the seat back of the actual vehicle seat.  So I had to uninstall it and reinstall it with the pad in its proper place making it very difficult to do.Size Is Pretty Big	he size is pretty big not reallySize Of Car Seat Hyundai Sonata Minivan Odyssey	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Size Of Car Seat Hyundai Sonata Minivan Odyssey	e got this car seat after being very happy with my sons First Years Via car seat.  He was too big already for the extra padding but we had him back facing in this seat for about six months and now have him forward facing.  Hes liked both ways.  I drive a Hyundai Sonata so we have decent room in my car for the seat but weve also put it in a friends four runner and my husbands Elantra and it has fit really well in all cars.  It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfySize Of Images	Better get some means of decent storage space 750-1TB hardrive will doSize Of Seat Is Fairly Large	The size is pretty bigSize Too Bulky	Very bulky. Size Too Big 	  The seat is gigantic.Skate/surf Video	It is GREAT for skate/surf video because ofSleeping	sleepingSleeping	head kept his head from slumping to the sideSleeping	As for sleeping my little ones head did not hang over once.Sleeping	my daughter falls asleep they hold her head up so its not bobbing all over the placeSlow Auto-focus Nikon D5000 Live preview Autofocus Focal length Shutter speed Viewfinder Zoom lens (photography) Ultrasonic motor Canon (company) Flash Camera Color balance Film	Since I have switched from Nikon to Canon a lot of my review is based on comparison to Nikon.ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Most canon lenses have loud autofocus motors. The lenses with the nicer USM AF motors are too expensive.No mode in canon to set Av mode and set min shutter speed while letting the camera pick the ISO. Standard in Nikons. Canon seems to pick the shutter speed based on the zoom focal length selected.White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.No good priced  normal  50mm/35mm lens available. There is only one 50mm el-cheapo which apparently looks extremely cheap but I will buy it anyway.Slow Focus	Focus in live picture mode is slowSlow Motion motion	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Slow Motion Video Frame rate	60fps HD RecordingSlow Speed	Slower than T2i SLR	The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRSmaller Cars 	A few things I dont like but not many.  The size is pretty big not really an issue for me but it could be in some of the smaller cars out thereSmaller Sensor Nikon D5100	In hindsight The nikon D5100 has a better larger DX sensor vs canon APS sized sensor sensor. So less noise on the Nikon.Snug	really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.Snug Fit	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move aroundSoft Belching	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabric. I rolled some burp cloths on the side to stabilize his head while hes still small. May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.Soft Comfy	5.0 out of 5 stars Soft Material	soft and fuzzySoftware Firmware Point-and-shoot camera	.  Apparently this is a discussed firmware issueSoftware Firmware Point-and-shoot camera	Other than the ISO firmware issue it is a great camera capable of very good pictures just not in the auto point and shoot modes.Software Firmware Point-and-shoot camera	My only issue with the T3i concerns the GRID functions. These work only in LIVE VIEW MODE as Ive found so far. As soon as you move up to manual for full control you lose the grid I use the 3x3 which helps me set my composition.Sophistication Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	Mic inputSophistication Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraSophistication Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screenSound Image stabilization	Mic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSpace Fitting	Very bulkySpace In Smaller Cars	is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in. Space Occupied Minivan Odyssey	 Yes it is a big car seatSpace Occupied Minivan Odyssey	Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move aroundSpace Occupied Minivan Odyssey	They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Space Toddler	Very bulky.Space Toddler	Very bulky. Space Toddler	has so much roomSpace Toddler	has so much roomSpace Toddler	it is a big car seatSpace Toddler	The seat is giganticSpace Toddler	The seat is gigantic. Space Toddler	 its a very tight spaceSpace Toddler	Big enough for a toddlerSpacious	has so much roomSpecifications Product description (business) 1080p Inch DIGIC APS-C Digital single-lens reflex camera Canon EF-S lens mount EOS 550D 18-55mm EF (company) Image processing engine CMOS	Im glad to have this camera it has everything comparable to canon t2  1080p movie 14.2 mp 502g light weight. 3 inch screen .Specifications Product description (business) 1080p Inch DIGIC APS-C Digital single-lens reflex camera Canon EF-S lens mount EOS 550D 18-55mm EF (company) Image processing engine CMOS	Canon EOS Rebel T2i 18 MP CMOS APS-C Sensor DIGIC 4 Image Processor Full-HD Movie Mode Digital SLR Camera with 3.0-inch LCD and and EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS LensSpecifications Product description (business) 1080p Inch DIGIC APS-C Digital single-lens reflex camera Canon EF-S lens mount EOS 550D 18-55mm EF (company) Image processing engine CMOS	Currently the product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat.  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Specifics Digital camera Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Liquid crystal display Nikon Canon (company) Zoom lens Camera Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor Single-lens reflex D3100	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsSpecifics Digital camera Megapixel Autofocus Pixel Liquid crystal display Nikon Canon (company) Zoom lens Camera Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor Single-lens reflex D3100	Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Specs	They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that baseSpecs	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Speed  Autofocus Digital single-lens reflex camera Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Shutter 135 film Canon (company) lag Point-and-shoot UV filter	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOther Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	FASTSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	T2i is FASTSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	Slower than T2iSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	Slower than T2iSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	Slower than T2iSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	Slower than T2iSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	Slower than T2iSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	Slower than T2iSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	The T2i is FASTSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	The T2i is FASTSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	The T2i is FASTSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	The T2i is FASTSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	The T2i is FASTSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	The T2i is FASTSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	Slower than T2i Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	Slower than T2i Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	Slower than T2i Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	Slower than T2i Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	Slower than T2i Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	Slower than T2i Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	Slower than T2i Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	Slower than T2i Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	The T2i is FAST.Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	Fast start up speedSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	Fast start up speedSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	Fast start up speedSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	spending that much Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	Fast start up speed Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	Fast start up speed Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	not very fast at allSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	not very fast at allSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	turns on in about 1 secondSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	3.7 max burst rate not very fastSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	T2i is the one I will keep.  WhySpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	Very fast auto focus on shootingSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	Very fast auto focus on shootingSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	frequent and unpredictable delaysSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	 Very fast auto focus on shooting.Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	Focus in live picture mode is slowSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	Focus in live picture mode is slow Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	It is GREAT for skate/surf video because of its 60fps mode.Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhySpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shotsSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shootingSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	you can press the shutter and the camera will instantly take a pictureSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slowSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow.Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shotsSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	  Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots. Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous modeSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous modeSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	Fast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	Auto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	ConsAuto focus in  live view  mode seeing through the lcd instead of the viewfinder is extremely slow. Makes me not ever wanting to use it.Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	The T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to.  It makes a huge difference knowinSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous modeSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	  The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses.Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhySpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	e I would just use it in my husbands car and then order the Britax for my car.  No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all herSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhySpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhySpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhySpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhySpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhySpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhySpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasSpeed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	I used the same exact settings on both cameras large Jpeg P-mode Quick AF.  Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	I used the same exact settings on both cameras large Jpeg P-mode Quick AF.  Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	I used the same exact settings on both cameras large Jpeg P-mode Quick AF.  Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	I used the same exact settings on both cameras large Jpeg P-mode Quick AF.  Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	I used the same exact settings on both cameras large Jpeg P-mode Quick AF.  Compared to the instant responsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	The T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to.  It makes a huge difference knowing you can press the shutter and the camera will instantly take a picture.  The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	The T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to.  It makes a huge difference knowing you can press the shutter and the camera will instantly take a picture.  The T3i however adds frequent and unpredictable delays when  busy  flashes in the viewfinder and the red light is on -- even in continuous mode.Speed Autofocus Live preview Viewfinder Keep Burst mode (photography) Frame rate British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital Image stabilization single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics) Shutter Focus Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot Camera button Britax	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iSports High school football in North America American	 I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing.Sports High school football in North America American	wait until I read more and experiment. I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing. My friends son is Captain of his High School Football team and I have gotten some great shots for him to send to recruiters and colleges now lets talk Sports Video Frame rate	It is GREAT for skate/surf video because of its 60fps mode.Stabilization	The IS works really wellStart Up Speed	Fast start up speedStart Up Speed	Fast start up speedStart Up Speed	Fast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondStart Up Speed	Fast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondStart Up Speed	Fast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondStills	18MP StillsStills	18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPStorage Memory card Computer data storage	750-1TB hardrive will doStorage Memory card Computer data storage	I would recommend to get a high speed memory card. The pictures at full 18MP take a lot of memory. Better get some means of decent storage space 750-1TB hardrive will doStrap Adjustment	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.Strap Adjustment	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Strap Minivan Odyssey	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.Straps	adjusting the strapsStraps	No thread adjustable strapsStraps	No thread adjustable strapsStraps	No thread adjustable strapsStraps	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing positionStraps	the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as welStraps	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.Straps	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.Straps	adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seatsStraps	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issue.Straps	hey were pretty easy to install and adjusting the straps as the kids grow is so easy in comparison to other seats. Other than the issues in rear facing position this is a terrific seat.Stroller Compatible	Works perfectly with the Snap N Go stroller piece.Structure Digital single-lens reflex camera Camera	not very heavyStructure Digital single-lens reflex camera Camera	body is rock solid and worthy of purchase for ANY and ALL people entering or needing an advanced DSLR cameraSturdiness	This body is rock solid Sturdiness - Weight  Asymptotic giant branch	Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day.Sturdy	ery sturdy Style	seat is also stylishStyle	but this seat is also stylishStyle	Cant adjust strap length while in rear facing position.Style	This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or styleStyle	we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Style And Function	This car seat works out perfectly for us plus we dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Stylish	stylishStylish	Loved the colors as well.Subject	I am not a professional so please dont take my opinion as someone acting as an authority on this subjectSuitable For Babies Of A Wide Age Range	This will even work for newbornsSum Advantages	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Sum Of Negatives Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Digital Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Nikon Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor Single-lens reflex D3100	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasSum Of Negatives Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Digital Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Nikon Canon (company) Zoom Lithium-ion battery Computer monitor Single-lens reflex D3100	Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Summers	May be regretting the black fabric in Texas summers though.Sun Screening	When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyesSun Visor Made Of Mesh visor	he biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. ISun Visor visor Keep	sun visorSun Visor visor Keep	sun visorSun Visor visor Keep	 darn sun visorSun Visor visor Keep	this darn sun visorSun Visor visor Keep	he biggest is this darn sun visorSun Visor visor Keep	the biggest is this darn sun visorSun Visor visor Keep	the biggest is this darn sun visorSun Visor visor Keep	the biggest is this darn sun visorSun Visor visor Keep	the biggest is this darn sun visor.Sun Visor visor Keep	 the biggest is this darn sun visor.Sun Visor visor Keep	When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Sun Visor visor Keep	 When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Sun Visor visor Keep	 the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyesSun Visor visor Keep	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Sun Visor visor Keep	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Sun Visor visor Keep	cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Sun Visor visor Keep	the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Sun Visor visor Keep	darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Sun Visor visor Keep	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinkingSun Visor visor Keep	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Sun Visor visor Keep	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Sun Visor visor Keep	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Sun Visor visor Keep	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Sun Visor visor Keep	 the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Sun Visor visor Keep	cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.Sun Visor visor Keep	on.cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to Sun Visor visor Keep	ons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Sun Visor visor Keep	cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Sun Visor visor Keep	cons the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out. Whoever thought to use mesh wasnt thinking.  the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Support	head/neck support cushionSupport	head/neck support cushionSupport	comes with head/neck support cushion. The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby. It is side crash tested and the base is adjustableT2 Vs T3 Lola language Keep Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	2i is the one I will keep.  WhyT2 Vs T3 Lola language Keep Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	he t2i over t3i because I didnt feel I would need to use the movable lcd screen T2 Vs T3 Lola language Keep Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.T2 Vs T3 Lola language Keep Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	same features as the T2i. The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screenT2 Vs T3 Lola language Keep Canon (company) Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason onlyT2i Is Fast	he T2i is FAST.  I shoot my toddler in continuous mode and the camera delivers the 3.7 fps its supposed to.  It makes a huge difference knowT2I Is Faster Keep	decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhyT2i Keep	Camera is just amazingT2i Keep	It is very user Friendly and Fun to useT2i Keep	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3i.  For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhyT2i_commems_comp	If your looking for a great Camera look no further you have found it  If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100. T3i User (computing) Usability	The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not.T3i User (computing) Usability	Im a film student and was trying to decide between a t3i and Nikon 5100. everyone tells me that Nikon has a better lenses but when it comes down to it you can buy any lens for your camera. the 600d has better continuous recording you have better manual capabilities. after a lot research i decided to go with the canonT3i_comments_comp Canon EOS 60D Prime lens	Eventhough i got this for a normal price i love this camera like anything. Being a beginner in photographyi took much time to decide on models between T2iT3i and 60D. Atlast i bought T3i and i am very much satisfied with the product. Amazon prime helped to get the delivery in a very shortest period which was not imaginable.The only mistake i did was i bought 2 different lens18-55 Take Apart	The cup holder isnt pictured but there is a detachable one in the box. The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Taking Easy Pictures	just not in the auto point and shoot modesTaking Live Pictures	Focus in live picture mode is slowTaking Pictures In Auto Mode	pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original file I noticed it was from the amount of grain in the picture.  The grain was drowning out the details and almost made the picture look out of focus.  It was happening whether I was indoor or outdoor flash or no flash.  I changed the camTaking Videos	I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good Taking Wide Angle Pictures Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens	Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.Target user type Digital single-lens reflex camera APS-C	  It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.Target user type Digital single-lens reflex camera APS-C	This is not a professional level SLR but it performs very well as a small light APS-C camera.Target user type Digital single-lens reflex camera APS-C	As a first time Digital SLR buyer and user I love this camera and would highly recommend it to others. Target user type Digital single-lens reflex camera APS-C	 If you are just starting out are bored with the out of date  point-n-shoot  want to upgrade your digital cams or you want to move from film to digital the T3i will not disappointTarget user type Digital single-lens reflex camera APS-C	The T3i is out now so thats probably a better bet but I love the fact that I can slowly advance my knowledge of the SLR usage as I go.  Starting off on full auto moving through the different pre-determined settings sports portrait landscape etc and the into the manual modes.  I figure Im another year or so with this and Ill be ready to upgrade to the 7D and pass this on to my daughter.Test	used Texture	 VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.  excellent padding and very nice soft fabricThe Flash Is Not So Good Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens (photography) Angle	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shadeTheir Son Loves It	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little baby.Their Son Loves It	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.Tight On Power Comsumption	is camera is very tight on power consumption anTight Space	its a very tight space to use the light blue head restsToddler	Big enough for a toddlerToddler	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsToo High ISO  Nikon D3100 Film speed	there is a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the setting.  This is causing the grain/dull/no detailed photosToo Much Delays British Rail Class 10 Secure Digital	sponsiveness of the T2i this was plain annoying and caused me to miss numerous shots.  I used the same class 10 SDHC chip in both cameras but -- this is interesting -- even without any memory chip in the camera the delays are still there.Transition Infant Toddler	Comfortable for kids from infant to toddlerTransitions	 car seat is very easy to get baby in and out ofTrue To Ad	This camera is exactly as it is advertisedU Shutter lag (photography)	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.U Shutter lag (photography)	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.U Shutter lag (photography)	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.U Shutter lag (photography)	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.U Shutter lag (photography)	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.U Shutter lag (photography)	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Unclear Shots Nikon D3100 Film speed	a problem with the D3100 choosing very high ISO levels in Auto Mode no matter the settingUnprofessional	I am not a professional so please dont take my opinion as someone acting as an authority on this subjectUpgrade	 I am upgrading from a Canon XSIUpgrade	I bought the T2i first then decided to upgrade to the T3iUpgrade	I upgraded from nikon D50 to this. So of course the pictures are much much better.Upgrade	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Upgrade	the next problem I encountered was trying to get the correct extra base. They tell you to get the base for the snug ride 35 but there is not a level indicator on that base. Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Upgrades Digital single-lens reflex camera 135 film Lens (optics)	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lensesUpgrades Lens If Beginner DSLR 135 film (optics)	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lensUsability  Nikon D3100 D5100 Digital photography Ergonomics Menu (computing)	Ergonomically the D3100 is the easier to use compared to the D5100 that had to relinquish four buttons to make room for the swivel screen of the D5100. Usability  Nikon D3100 D5100 Digital photography Ergonomics Menu (computing)	The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual mode.Usability  Nikon D3100 D5100 Digital photography Ergonomics Menu (computing)	Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bitUsability  Nikon D3100 D5100 Digital photography Ergonomics Menu (computing)	For ease of use IQ form factor it wont weigh me down etc. I feel as if the D3100 was a great purchase. Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup.Usability  Nikon D3100 D5100 Digital photography Ergonomics Menu (computing)	I find the ergonomic arrangement of controls on the camera to very very intuitive and pleasant to use.  The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm grip.  The menu system for adjusting camera settings is also well designed and easy to use. Usability Overall Digital photography Nikon D3100	though an avid photography enthusiast for many years theres not a lot for me to compare the D3100 to. However my own experience in the short week since I purchased the camera has been extremely gratifying. For ease of use IQ form factor it wont weigh me down etc. I feel as if the D3100 was a great purchase. Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup.Usability Wallet Toddler Headrest Minivan Odyssey Keep Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	No Flip-out LCDUsability Wallet Toddler Headrest Minivan Odyssey Keep Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	Big enough for a toddlerUsability Wallet Toddler Headrest Minivan Odyssey Keep Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	Her car is a Honda Civic so it was a little tricky to get it in.Usability Wallet Toddler Headrest Minivan Odyssey Keep Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	 The material is easy to take off and machine wash when accidents happen.Usability Wallet Toddler Headrest Minivan Odyssey Keep Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	VERY easy to install base in car. It takes my husband less than 2 minutes.Usability Wallet Toddler Headrest Minivan Odyssey Keep Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Usability Wallet Toddler Headrest Minivan Odyssey Keep Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	  Yes its a little difficult to install but you get the hang of it real quick.Usability Wallet Toddler Headrest Minivan Odyssey Keep Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	This car seat is very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durableUsability Wallet Toddler Headrest Minivan Odyssey Keep Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	The instructions were simple and there was no wondering whether or not you got it right.Usability Wallet Toddler Headrest Minivan Odyssey Keep Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	ProsBig enough for a toddlerEasy to installComfortable for kids from infant to toddlerNo thread adjustable strapsUsability Wallet Toddler Headrest Minivan Odyssey Keep Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great productUsability Wallet Toddler Headrest Minivan Odyssey Keep Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Usability Wallet Toddler Headrest Minivan Odyssey Keep Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	This seat would onlt fit in the 2nd row in the middle seating position so that it came up almost through the 2 front seats.  I doubt this seat would fit into any other position in any carUsability Wallet Toddler Headrest Minivan Odyssey Keep Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.Usability Wallet Toddler Headrest Minivan Odyssey Keep Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	ConsVery bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Catch a lot of stuff under the paddingCant adjust strap length while in rear facing position. This is most frustrating but not often an issueUsability Wallet Toddler Headrest Minivan Odyssey Keep Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	Therefore when you are installing your snug ride 30 car seat with a snug ride 35 base you cannot tell if the car seat is level. After talking to 2 graco representatives the first one told me to  eyeball it  they were able to send me a snug ride 30 base. They claim the new base should be available on the market soon but for now you have to buy it through graco directly.Usability Wallet Toddler Headrest Minivan Odyssey Keep Computer monitor Image resolution Megapixel Pixel Liquid crystal display Canon (company) Display	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Usage 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company)	Easy to operateUsage 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company)	Ive had it for about a year and I love itUsage 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company)	very easy to get baby in and out of is nice and heavy very durableUsage 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company)	It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.Use For Beginners Digital single-lens reflex camera Lens (optics)	if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lensesUse Owner's manual Shutter (photography) button Button	The T2i is FASTUse Owner's manual Shutter (photography) button Button	view finder is very clearUse Owner's manual Shutter (photography) button Button	It is so easy to use and install Use Owner's manual Shutter (photography) button Button	adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual modeUSE- Battery	Battery life seems to be very good - longer than I expecteUseability	What sold me was the guide mode.User Comfort Sun visor Child safety seat Infant car	The material was soft and fuzzy very comfortable for a little babyUser Comfort Sun visor Child safety seat Infant car	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secureUser Comfort Sun visor Child safety seat Infant car	My daughter loves this carseat - its very comfortable and appears to be very safeUser Comfort Sun visor Child safety seat Infant car	ery nice fabric thats soft to the touch and the buckle system is heavy duty and easy to use as wellUser Comfort Sun visor Child safety seat Infant car	My son fits comfortably in it and has so much room verses his carrier car seat we brought him home in.User Comfort Sun visor Child safety seat Infant car	It is bigger than a lot of other car seats out there but I also feel like it is really well constructed and pretty comfyUser Comfort Sun visor Child safety seat Infant car	No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.User Comfort Sun visor Child safety seat Infant car	 it protects my little girl and it provides comfert for her. she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves itUser Comfort Sun visor Child safety seat Infant car	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyesUser Comfort Sun visor Child safety seat Infant car	Graco put overall adequate padding in the back part but where the baby sits there is absolutely NO padding.  -So babies only have the carseat covers thickness as padding and thats it. which is a joke to consider  padding  So theyre essentially sitting on the hard plastic.User Comparison	verses his carrier car seatUser Comparison	I chose it because it has the highest safety rating.User Comparison	Its my first digital SLR Ive had it for about a year and I love it.User Comparison	I did a lot of research on safety price etc. before buying this one.User Comparison	I was used to using point-and-shoots and small flip style video cameras to make my videos.User Comparison	I had almost convinced myself of the T2i. I resisted and ended up waiting to purchase the T3i which was the best decision I made.User Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera High school football in North America American Hyundai Sonata Business day Out of the box	A Kids ReviewUser Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera High school football in North America American Hyundai Sonata Business day Out of the box	in my opinionUser Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera High school football in North America American Hyundai Sonata Business day Out of the box	Hyundai SonataUser Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera High school football in North America American Hyundai Sonata Business day Out of the box	my son LOVES it User Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera High school football in North America American Hyundai Sonata Business day Out of the box	I have a 2003 MaximaUser Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera High school football in North America American Hyundai Sonata Business day Out of the box	Amazon Verified PurchaseUser Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera High school football in North America American Hyundai Sonata Business day Out of the box	  I havent tested it out yet User Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera High school football in North America American Hyundai Sonata Business day Out of the box	if you do skate videos/photosUser Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera High school football in North America American Hyundai Sonata Business day Out of the box	Being a beginner in photographyUser Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera High school football in North America American Hyundai Sonata Business day Out of the box	check me out brittneysheystudios.comUser Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera High school football in North America American Hyundai Sonata Business day Out of the box	Especially if this is your first DSLRUser Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera High school football in North America American Hyundai Sonata Business day Out of the box	Craig Benham - Photographic Adventures Ltd User Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera High school football in North America American Hyundai Sonata Business day Out of the box	since it was out of stock at Amazon and also with 10User Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera High school football in North America American Hyundai Sonata Business day Out of the box	Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. User Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera High school football in North America American Hyundai Sonata Business day Out of the box	  Both were delivered super fast and in perfect condition.User Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera High school football in North America American Hyundai Sonata Business day Out of the box	My friends son is Captain of his High School Football teamUser Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera High school football in North America American Hyundai Sonata Business day Out of the box	came within 2 business days even though I did standard shipping.User Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera High school football in North America American Hyundai Sonata Business day Out of the box	I am person that is making a transition from an old point and shoot to this DLSRUser Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera High school football in North America American Hyundai Sonata Business day Out of the box	 Amazon prime helped to get the delivery in a very shortest period which was not imaginable.User Credibility Digital single-lens reflex camera High school football in North America American Hyundai Sonata Business day Out of the box	The car seat was delivered one day after I ordered it online. Which was outstanding. I took it out of the box and my 2 year old became giddy with excitement. User Experience Infant car seat	guide modeUser Experience Infant car seat	my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all hereUser Experience Infant car seat	Its an excellent camera for ANY level of photographer - beginner or experienced pro this camera really shines. User Feedback	his seat is great and my son LOVES itUser Feedback	Again my little girl likes being in the seat and able to look out of the windows at the world around her. I would recommend thisUser Feedback	she use to always scream when even we had to go anywere but with this new saftey 1st car seat she loves it. Im just thinking how happy she will be when she gets turned around in a few months. This will evenUser Freindly Digital single-lens reflex camera	It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.  It is very user Friendly and Fun to use.User Friendliness	solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand gripUser Friendliness	y I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto modeUser Friendly Digital single-lens reflex camera Canon EF-S lens mount EOS 7D Raw image format Kit 1080p Liquid crystal display	Easy to operate.User Friendly Digital single-lens reflex camera Canon EF-S lens mount EOS 7D Raw image format Kit 1080p Liquid crystal display	Being a beginner in photographyUser Friendly Digital single-lens reflex camera Canon EF-S lens mount EOS 7D Raw image format Kit 1080p Liquid crystal display	It is very user Friendly and Fun to use.User Friendly Digital single-lens reflex camera Canon EF-S lens mount EOS 7D Raw image format Kit 1080p Liquid crystal display	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menu. The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not.User Friendly Digital single-lens reflex camera Canon EF-S lens mount EOS 7D Raw image format Kit 1080p Liquid crystal display	a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.  I chose to purchase the camera body separately so that I could pair it with the EF-S 17-55mm f/2.8 IS USM lens.  Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera.  Ive taken some stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens combo.  Save yourself the headache of working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body.  Pair it with the lens of your choice but I have no regrets with my 17-55mm purchase.User Interface Usability (computing) Digital single-lens reflex camera	user-friendly controlsUser Interface Usability (computing) Digital single-lens reflex camera	  It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.  It is very user Friendly and Fun to use.User Opinion Scratching Infant car seat	it was rated User Opinion Scratching Infant car seat	3.0 out of 5 stars User Opinion Scratching Infant car seat	 seemed very comfortable in it User Opinion Scratching Infant car seat	A few things I dont like but not manyUser Opinion Scratching Infant car seat	I have no regrets with my 17-55mm purchase.User Opinion Scratching Infant car seat	it took me a bit to figure out how to work itUser Opinion Scratching Infant car seat	I have only scratched the surface of my purchaseUser Opinion Scratching Infant car seat	its very comfortable and appears to be very safe.User Opinion Scratching Infant car seat	He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.User Opinion Scratching Infant car seat	My child is so comfortable and Im confident that he is safe and secure.User Opinion Scratching Infant car seat	If you want to really get serious about photography or video making then get THIS camera.User Opinion Scratching Infant car seat	shoots great in low lighting settings. all the controls fit my hand nicely and it feels natural. User-friendliness And Functionality Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.User-friendliness Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability User (computing)	 The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not.User-friendliness Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability User (computing)	I took some picture with the Auto mode and they came out very good. Also i loved the guide mode when in doubt use guide.User-friendliness Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability User (computing)	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.User-friendly Control Digital single-lens reflex camera Usability	This camera is exactly as it is advertised basically a 7D in a crop body with user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known for.User-friendly Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera UV filter Filter (optics) Owner's manual Shutter (photography) button Button Use forms of explosives Lightweight	Relatively lightUser-friendly Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera UV filter Filter (optics) Owner's manual Shutter (photography) button Button Use forms of explosives Lightweight	Make sure to get UV filterUser-friendly Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera UV filter Filter (optics) Owner's manual Shutter (photography) button Button Use forms of explosives Lightweight	Its an excellent camera for ANY level of photographer - beginner or experienced proUser-friendly Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera UV filter Filter (optics) Owner's manual Shutter (photography) button Button Use forms of explosives Lightweight	user-friendly controls and the advanced functionality that Canon DSLRs are known forUser-friendly Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera UV filter Filter (optics) Owner's manual Shutter (photography) button Button Use forms of explosives Lightweight	Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortabilityUser-friendly Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera UV filter Filter (optics) Owner's manual Shutter (photography) button Button Use forms of explosives Lightweight	The adjustment wheel just behind the shutter button makes changing settings very simple when in manual modeUser-friendly Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera UV filter Filter (optics) Owner's manual Shutter (photography) button Button Use forms of explosives Lightweight	The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRsUser-friendly Usability Digital single-lens reflex camera UV filter Filter (optics) Owner's manual Shutter (photography) button Button Use forms of explosives Lightweight	The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm gripUv Filter And Battery UV filter	Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for UV Filter For Lense filter (optics)	Make sure to get UV filterValue  Nikon D3100 Digital photography 1080p Keep Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	If you are comparing this camera to the T3i get this cameraValue  Nikon D3100 Digital photography 1080p Keep Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.Value  Nikon D3100 Digital photography 1080p Keep Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	 At a glance the camera has a good feel to it and overall has the same features as the T2i. The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take.Value  Nikon D3100 Digital photography 1080p Keep Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	For ease of use IQ form factor it wont weigh me down etc. I feel as if the D3100 was a great purchase. Highly recommended to other newbies who want to get involved with digital photography at a reasonable price - as well as experienced photographers who need a reliable easy to carry backup.Value  Nikon D3100 Digital photography 1080p Keep Camera Liquid crystal display Computer monitor	Although pricey make no mistake this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera.  Ive taken some stunning RAW photos and 1080p video with this camera/lens combo.  Save yourself the headache of working with the kit lens and purchase just the camera body.  Pair it with the lens of your choice but I have no regrets with my 17-55mm purchase.Value Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	lower than T2i Value Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	ts wallet friendlyValue Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	heck of a good dealValue Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	Bonus- its wallet friendlyValue Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	They are worth every penny.Value Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	the price is very reasonableValue Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	It isnt the cheapest seat out thereValue Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	For the money the D3100 cant be beat.Value Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	For the money the D3100 cant be beat.Value Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	For the money the D3100 cant be beat.Value Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	Overall a very nice car seat for the price.Value Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	we dont need to compromise on quality or style.Value Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	Excellent camera though a bit expensive - worth every penny.Value Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	This is a great option for those of us who cant afford a Britax.Value Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the moneyValue Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.Value Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.Value Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Value Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Value Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lensValue Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	For the price I expected padding on the ENTIRE carseat and for Graco to not skimp on it.Value Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.Value Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.Value Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	 I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.Value Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	bottom line is that images from the D3100 are indistinguishable from the more expensive modelsValue Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Value Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Value Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	The macro features are also on par with its more advanced and WAY higher priced big brothers to this cameraValue Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	  Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEATValue Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	dont need to compromise on quality or style.  It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonableValue Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.Value Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good deal.Value Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	Love this car seat   After extensive research and practically being settled on the Britax Advocate I feel like you get what you pay forValue Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses.Value Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much . But to much of my suprise the True Fit convertable car seat is amazingValue Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	great deal for the price. I understand each car seat has to meet standards but I have been please with this one and my husband just purchased an extra one to have in his 06Nissan FrontierValue Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.Value Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	Ive purchased SnugRides in the past but this is the first one to have a serious lack of adequate padding.  Again for the price would it have REALLY been that expensive for Graco to continue the padding to the SEATValue Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	I had been taking pictures with my roommates Canon EOS t2i for months and then I decided to get my own entry-level DSLR. Ive compared Canon EOS t2i with Nikon D3100 and finally I picked D3100. I am very happy about the decision.Value Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am sure the Nikon D5100 is a spectacular camera and it sports a larder image sensor than the Canon. I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.Value Britax Child safety seat Wallet Digital single-lens reflex camera Sony Radio Academy Awards Nikon D3100 135 film Lens (optics) Canon (company) D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Manual focus SEAT EOS	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.  I conducted countless hours of research on Canons Nikons and even Sonys.  I was used to using point-and-shoots and small flip style video cameras to make my videos.  I looked into DSLRs and really wanted a canon.  YOU CANT GO WRONG WITH THIS CAMERA   It is great for intermediate shooters who want to get their first or second DSLR.  It is very user Friendly and Fun to use.Value For Money Britax Child safety seat	worth every pennyValue For Money Britax Child safety seat	Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kitValue For Money Britax Child safety seat	This camera/lens kit is probably the best you can get for the money.Value For Money Britax Child safety seat	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonableValue For Money Britax Child safety seat	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Value For Money Britax Child safety seat	Although friends told me that Britax car seats were great I could not see myself spending that much Value For Money Britax Child safety seat	It isnt the cheapest seat out there but for how good it is and compared to comparable seats youre getting one heck of a good dealValue For Money Britax Child safety seat	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.Value/Price	Great value for the priceVariability	I have taken nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazing.Varitey	nature shots portrait shots and sports shots they have all come out amazingVedio Autofocus Digital zoom	No autofocus when zooming while taking videoVery Big. Might Not Fit In Small Cars	Very bulkyVery Bulky	so I dont mind the bulkVery Fast Auto Focus Autofocus	Very fast auto focus on shootingVery Fast Auto Shooting Autofocus	Very fast auto focus on shooting.Very Secure And Kids Love Them	It holds the girls very secure and they love them.Very Sturdy  Point-and-shoot camera Camera Eastman Kodak	choice.  Unfortunately I have not learned enough to take many pictures off of Auto mode so it acts like a point and shoot.  Compared to my Kodak point and shoot the pictures are great.  I love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy.  It looks like it should be but does not feel like it is.  It appears to be a very sturdy camera.Video 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	nice videoVideo 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	nice videoVideo 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	1080P videoVideo 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	60fps HD RecordingVideo 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDINGVideo 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDINGVideo 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDINGVideo 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDINGVideo 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDINGVideo 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDINGVideo 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	The best part was the 1080PVideo 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	best part was the 1080P videoVideo 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	Takes good quality of videos.Video 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	Takes good quality of videos.Video 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	Takes good quality of videos.Video 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	Digital 3x zoom in video mode.Video 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	No audio recording level adjustVideo 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	video manual focus on the CanonVideo 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	Oh and the video.....Its 1080p HDVideo 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	The best part was the 1080P videoVideo 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	The best part was the 1080P videoVideo 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	The best part was the 1080P video.Video 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	600d has better continuous recordingVideo 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	good low-light performance nice videoVideo 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	 good low-light performance nice video.Video 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Video 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Video 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	No autofocus when zooming while taking videoVideo 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	The lens makes noises when youre recording videosVideo 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	guess now i can finally retire my mini DV video cameraVideo 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoVideo 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	It is GREAT for skate/surf video because of its 60fps mode.Video 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Video 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Video 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Video 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	Oh and the video.....Its 1080p HD nothing more needs to be said.Video 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Video 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.Video 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	you would have thought I used a real video camera and not one from a cameraVideo 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Video 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurateVideo 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	ets talk Video I have taken alot for Football and I can not believe the quality and sound you would have thought I used a real video camera and nVideo 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	ideo modes in SLR cameras are fairly useless unless you are good with manual focussing and use the tripod. BTW the lens IS does work in video mode.Video 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor.Video 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	lets talk Video I have taken alot for Football and I can not believe the quality and sound you would have thought I used a real video camera and not one from a camera it has surpassed what I have expected for a camera I am unbelievably happy with my purchase.Video 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	now lets talk Video I have taken alot for Football and I can not believe the quality and sound you would have thought I used a real video camera and not one from a camera it has surpassed what I have expected for a camera I am unbelievably happy with my purchase.Video 1080p High-definition television Slow motion Frame rate Shutter lag (photography) DV camera Autofocus Lens (optics) Manual focus Canon (company) button Digital zoom Nikon D5100 Liquid crystal display Camera	 After testing out all the products I came to the decision that the only cameras I liked that felt good in my hand were the Canon T2i Nikon D5100 and the Can T3i. I went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screen. I personally preferred the Canon T3i over the Canon T2i because of that one reason only which is not a huge deal. The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor.Video Auto-focus Autofocus Shutter (photography) button	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the pictureVideo Features Nikon D5100 Image sensor Autofocus Camera lens Canon (company) Manual focus	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am sure the Nikon D5100 is a spectacular camera and it sports a larder image sensor than the Canon. I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.Video Manual Focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Autofocus Camera Image sensor lens focus	The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am sure the Nikon D5100 is a spectacular camera and it sports aVideo Manual Focus Nikon D5100 Canon (company) Autofocus Camera Image sensor lens focus	 The reason I chose the T3i over the Nikon D5100 was because of video manual focus on the Canon and also the Nikon D5100 does not have a built-in focus motor. I am sure the Nikon D5100 is a spectacular camera and it sports a larder image sensor than the Canon. I just felt in my opinion that the Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kit.Video Performance Frame rate Shutter lag (photography)	60fps HD RecordingVideo Performance Frame rate Shutter lag (photography)	Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice videoVideo Quality Nikon D3100 1080p High-definition television DV Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Liquid crystal display Frame rate Burst mode Computer monitor	1080p HDVideo Quality Nikon D3100 1080p High-definition television DV Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Liquid crystal display Frame rate Burst mode Computer monitor	60fps HD RecordingVideo Quality Nikon D3100 1080p High-definition television DV Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Liquid crystal display Frame rate Burst mode Computer monitor	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDINGVideo Quality Nikon D3100 1080p High-definition television DV Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Liquid crystal display Frame rate Burst mode Computer monitor	the video truly being 1080pVideo Quality Nikon D3100 1080p High-definition television DV Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Liquid crystal display Frame rate Burst mode Computer monitor	Takes good quality of videos.Video Quality Nikon D3100 1080p High-definition television DV Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Liquid crystal display Frame rate Burst mode Computer monitor	Takes good quality of videos.Video Quality Nikon D3100 1080p High-definition television DV Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Liquid crystal display Frame rate Burst mode Computer monitor	Takes good quality of videos.Video Quality Nikon D3100 1080p High-definition television DV Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Liquid crystal display Frame rate Burst mode Computer monitor	 Takes good quality of videos.Video Quality Nikon D3100 1080p High-definition television DV Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Liquid crystal display Frame rate Burst mode Computer monitor	Oh and the video.....Its 1080p HDVideo Quality Nikon D3100 1080p High-definition television DV Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Liquid crystal display Frame rate Burst mode Computer monitor	 The best part was the 1080P video.Video Quality Nikon D3100 1080p High-definition television DV Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Liquid crystal display Frame rate Burst mode Computer monitor	3.7 max burst rate not very fast at allVideo Quality Nikon D3100 1080p High-definition television DV Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Liquid crystal display Frame rate Burst mode Computer monitor	we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100Video Quality Nikon D3100 1080p High-definition television DV Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Liquid crystal display Frame rate Burst mode Computer monitor	Oh and the video.....Its 1080p HD nothing more needs to be said. Video Quality Nikon D3100 1080p High-definition television DV Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Liquid crystal display Frame rate Burst mode Computer monitor	3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Video Quality Nikon D3100 1080p High-definition television DV Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Liquid crystal display Frame rate Burst mode Computer monitor	went for the T3i over the T2i because of the articulating LCD screenVideo Quality Nikon D3100 1080p High-definition television DV Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Liquid crystal display Frame rate Burst mode Computer monitor	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the pictureVideo Quality Nikon D3100 1080p High-definition television DV Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Liquid crystal display Frame rate Burst mode Computer monitor	The best part was the 1080P video. I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so goodVideo Quality Nikon D3100 1080p High-definition television DV Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Liquid crystal display Frame rate Burst mode Computer monitor	Video I have taken alot for Football and I can not believe the quality and sound you would have thought I used a real video camera and not one from a cameraVideo Quality Nikon D3100 1080p High-definition television DV Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Liquid crystal display Frame rate Burst mode Computer monitor	lets talk Video I have taken alot for Football and I can not believe the quality and sound you would have thought I used a real video camera and not one from a cameraVideo Quality Nikon D3100 1080p High-definition television DV Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Liquid crystal display Frame rate Burst mode Computer monitor	The best part was the 1080P video. I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good and my wife who is very difficult to please liked it so much that she said that next time we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100Video Quality Nikon D3100 1080p High-definition television DV Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Liquid crystal display Frame rate Burst mode Computer monitor	 The best part was the 1080P video. I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good and my wife who is very difficult to please liked it so much that she said that next time we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100Video Quality Nikon D3100 1080p High-definition television DV Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Liquid crystal display Frame rate Burst mode Computer monitor	Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasVideo Quality Nikon D3100 1080p High-definition television DV Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Liquid crystal display Frame rate Burst mode Computer monitor	The best part was the 1080P video. I took a dance performances of my wife and Kids at local community get together and they came out so good and my wife who is very difficult to please liked it so much that she said that next time we will shoot the video only with our Nikon D3100  I guess now i can finally retire my mini DV video cameraVideo Quality Nikon D3100 1080p High-definition television DV Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button Liquid crystal display Frame rate Burst mode Computer monitor	The main differences I noticed in it were the flip out LCD screen which I use more often for some of the photos I take. Among the screen the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menu. The camera itself is very user friendly whether you have read the manual or not. I am a person to read through and learn the various features the camera has to offer. I am impressed with the lens that comes with the camera for the wide angle aspect of it due to a lot of places I shoot pictures there are a lot of people and requires me to get close to get the shot I wantVideo Recording  Image stabilization	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Manual video controlsMic input18MP Stills  best for the money competitors are usually 16MPBuilt in image stabilizer 18-55mm lensSomewhat Compact sizeEase of useFast start up speed I have caught videos with this camera seconds away from missing a fast moving skate turns on in about 1 secondPRICE since the T3i came out this camera is going down in price but essentially is the same camera as the T3iVideo Recording Slow motion Keep 1080p Frame rate	60fps HD RecordingVideo Recording Slow motion Keep 1080p Frame rate	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDINGVideo Recording Slow motion Keep 1080p Frame rate	 The best part was the 1080P videoVideo Recording Slow motion Keep 1080p Frame rate	FULL HD VIDEO RECORDING60fps HD Recording AMAZING slow motion Video Recording Slow motion Keep 1080p Frame rate	For a period of two weeks I had both cameras in my possession so I could make a direct comparison and decided hands-down that the T2i is the one I will keep.  WhyVideo Taking 1080p	The best part was the 1080P videoVideo Taking 1080p	the improvement to the video truly being 1080p and the simple menu.Video Zoom	Digital 3x zoomVideo Zoom External Flash	Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.View Finder	 a view finder that movesView Finder	reference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100. View Finder	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100View Finder	If you are debating over the T2i vs the T3i there isnt much that is different it is preference whether you need a view finder that moves and if that feature is worth the extra 100.View Of Driver Headrest	head rest is removableVisibility  Headrest	What I also love about it is the head rest is removable which does not block my view since he is still small.Visor Does Not Block Any Sun Keep	I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out.Visor Sun visor	the biggest is this darn sun visorVisor Sun visor	cons the biggest is this darn sun visorVisor Sun visor	darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes.Visor Sun visor	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun outVisor Sun visor	the biggest is this darn sun visor. While it is very large the middle section is made of mesh. When the sun is bright it goes straight through the mesh and into the babys eyes. I am constantly trying to move the visor or the stroller to keep the sun out.Voice Recording	No audio recording level adjustWallet Friendly	onus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want Wallet Friendly Britax	Worse case I would just use it in my husbands car and then order the Britax for my car.  No need for that this seat is great and my son LOVES it   He used to fuss in his carrier/ infant seat but he doesnt at all here.  I am going to order another one of these for my husbands car.  It is so easy to use and install   Bonus- its wallet friendly and in this economy who wouldnt want to save a buck on a great product Warranty Service	pathetic nikon warranty service.Warranty Service	Canon service is apparently better than nikon.Warranty Service	Canon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.Warranty Suede Plush Nikon D5000	My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty serviceWarranty Suede Plush Nikon D5000	 My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.Warranty Suede Plush Nikon D5000	sent me a new cover that is a suede-like plush material -- free of charge  I was pleasantly surprised.Warranty Suede Plush Nikon D5000	Canon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.Warranty Suede Plush Nikon D5000	ProsCanon service is apparently better than nikon. Will edit this if this does not turn out to be true. My switch was mostly due to pathetic nikon warranty service.The IS works really well and I think better than nikons which I had tried for a week with a borrowed D5000.Digital 3x zoom in video mode.The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelessly. On nikons this is only true for the more expensive SB800s flashes.Washability	he part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.Washing Headrest	headrest pad is attached to another pad that continues down the back behind the main pad   So there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to washWashing Most Of It	there is actually quite a big piece that you cannot take off to washWeigh Use forms of explosives	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for tripsWeigh Use forms of explosives	The camera feels solid and is easy to hold with the very adequate right hand grip that has a rubberized cover allowing the user to maintain a firm gripWeigh Use forms of explosives	. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both haWeight  Autofocus Digital single-lens reflex camera Wide-angle lens Flash (photography) Shutter 135 film Canon (company) lag Point-and-shoot UV filter	Pros- The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Cons- Price- Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasOther Recommendations- Make sure to get UV filter mostly for protecting the lens and a spare battery Ive got the Opteka one for Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	heavy Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	howeverWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Very bulky.Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	heavy enoughWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Light weightWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Light weightWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	light weightWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	quite light Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	not very heavy.Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	elatively light Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Relatively lightWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Relatively lightWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Relatively lightWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Relatively lightWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Relatively lightWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Relatively lightWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Relatively lightWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Relatively lightWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	 Relatively lightWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Relatively light Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	2 pounds with lensWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	d is not very heavyWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	The seat is gigantic.Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Light weight great body designWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Light weight great body designWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Light weight great body designWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Light weight great body designWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	 Light weight great body designWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	 Light weight great body designWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lensWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Light weight great body design.Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Light weight great body design.Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	mparisons I decided on this camWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	. Light weight great body designWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	 Light weight great body design. Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	 Light weight great body design. Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	form factor it wont weigh me downWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lensWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lensWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lensWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lensWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lensWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	 Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lensWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	 I love that it has a higher weight limit as well. Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	and I love that it has a higher weight limit as well.Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all dayWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	this is the ultimate walk-around lens for a crop body camera.Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day. Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infinitiWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	elatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	ight weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti. Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	light weight and fits well in the middle seat in my midsize infiniti.Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for tripsWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for tripsWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for tripsWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for tripsWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for tripsWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	 Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	 Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limit.Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	D3100 14.2MP Digital SLR Camera with 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 AF-S DX VR Nikkor Zoom Lens CameraWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all dayWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Nikon D3100 16.2MP CMOS Digital SLR Camera with 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 AF-S DX VR Nikkor Zoom LensWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	 Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	The camera comes with a comfortable good quality neck strap and is quite light and small compared to other SLRWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	  I love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy.  It looks like it should beWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Unfortunately we had to turn them forward facing before their second birthday because they did not fit backwardsWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Very bulky. They fit fine in my odyssey mini van but not in my ford focus rear facing. Forward facing they fit in the smaller car ok.Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Its rugged enough that I dont worry about breaking it heavy enough to know its quality but light enough that I dont mind carrying it around all day.Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	 love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy.  It looks like it should be but does not feel like it is.  It appears to be a very sturdy camera.Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	I love this camera as it does a good job of taking pictures and is not very heavy.  It looks like it should be but does not feel like it is.  It appears to be a very sturdy camera.Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Currently the product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat.  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbsWeight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	The 18-135mm lens is a nice upgrade to the standard kit 18-55mm lens. Especially if this is your first DSLR and you dont want to spend more money on lenses. It is also good for trips taking pictures of kids or in any other situation where you dont want to change lenses. And you save about 100 when purchasing this kit compared to body + 18-135mm Canon lens.- Performance. Minimal shutter lag good low-light performance nice video.- Relatively light about 1 kg / 2 pounds with lens again good for trips.Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Weight Lightweight Asymptotic giant branch Mid-size car Walkaround Nikon D3100 Digital single-lens reflex camera Nikkor DX format Single-lens Autofocus Camera lens Product description (business) Minivan Odyssey Liquid crystal display Megapixel Pixel Canon (company) Lithium-ion battery Zoom Computer monitor CMOS Shutter lag 135 film Two pounds (British coin)	Pros1. Light weight great body design. Even with my bigger hands I can handle the camera with comfortability.2. Easy to operate. The buttons are spread evenly on left side and right side so you can use them with both hands quickly. For Canon t2i you do most things with your right thumb that slows you down a little bit.3. Takes good quality of videos.4. Very fast auto focus on shooting.Cons1. No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.3. The lens makes noises when youre recording videos using the continuous auto focus function and sometimes its not very accurate. If you buy this camera and this is your concern you can simply use manual focus which is not difficult.4. Battery life is not too great. I need to charge it everyday. To be safe consider to buy an extra Nikon EN-EL14 Rechargeable Li-Ion Battery for Nikon D3100 SLR and P7000 Digital Cameras.Weight Limit Keep	weight limit Weight Limit Keep	higher weight limitWeight Limit Keep	higher weight limitWeight Limit Keep	higher weight limit Weight Limit Keep	higher weight limit as well.Weight Limit Keep	higher weight limit as well. Weight Limit Keep	  The seat holds a child up to 65lbsWeight Limit Keep	it has a higher weight limit as wellWeight Limit Keep	I love that this seat has such a high rear facing weight and height limitWeight Limit Keep	The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Weight Limit Keep	I love that we can keep the seat rear facing up to 40 lbs now that the AAPs new recommendation is to wait till age 2 this seat makes it easy to do so.Weight Limit Not Correctly Stated	he seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Weight Limits Product description (business)	Currently the product features and product description contradict each other in regards to the weight limit of this car seat.  The seat holds a child up to 65lbs thus the name  Air 65 .  The Air Protect only holds a child up to 50lbs.Well Made	well madeWell Made	It is a well made and designed car seatWell Made	It is a well made and designed car seat and the price is very reasonable.Well Padded	seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.Well Padded And Easy To Install	  Safety is obviously my primary concern and this car seat fits really snugly in my car and doesnt move around.  I also find it really easy to install please do read all the directions first but after that time investment I havent had any issues installing it quickly and securely.  Plus the seat seams padded well and comfortable for my son.  Ive felt a lot of other car seats out there that feel like theyd be pretty hard to sit on and uncomfortable.White Balance Color balance	White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up.White Balance Color balance	White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. White Balance Color balance	The pictures looked dull and when I looked at the original fileWhite Balance Color balance	White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.White Balance Color balance	White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.White Balance In Auto Mode Color balance	White balance in Full auto mode sometimes messes up. Some pictures came out blue-ish.Wide Angle Settings Lens (optics) Wide-angle lens	when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shadeWide-angle Performance Lens (optics) lens	Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shadeWide-Angle Setting Autofocus Shutter (photography) Focus (optics) Wide-angle lens Flash Point-and-shoot camera Camera button	Built-in flash is not so great. Also when taking pictures on wide angle setting lens creates a shade.- No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.- Focus in live picture mode is slow even slower than on most point and shoot camerasWing Cleaning	The  wings  that I referred to earlier the things that stick out on either side of her head do not clean easily   My daughter puked ALL over her carseat and while the main carseat pad comes off and can be laundered in the machine the part that attaches to the headrest DOES NOT come off and therefore needs to be cleaned by hand.Wireless Image resolution Computer monitor Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Canon (company)	No wireless remoteWireless Image resolution Computer monitor Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Canon (company)	o wireless remote.Wireless Image resolution Computer monitor Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Canon (company)	The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelesslyWireless Image resolution Computer monitor Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Canon (company)	The 430EX II external flash can be supported by the camera wirelesslyWireless Image resolution Computer monitor Megapixel Liquid crystal display Pixel Display Canon (company)	No wireless remote.2. Low resolution of LCD screen. It only has 230000 pixels Canon t2i has 1.02 million pixels. Sometimes when youre viewing playback you may need to zoom in to check the sharpness of the picture or do it with your computer monitor.Wireless Remote	No wireless remote.Working With Other Products	Works perfectly with the Snap N Go stroller piece.Worth The Price	Excellent camera though a bit expensive - worth every penny.Worthwhile Price	Canon T3i was the best deal at 789.99 with the lens kitZoom Capabilities Kit lens Canon EF-S mount	I took the camera out to the beach and tested it and was amazed by the Canon T3i quality. I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer. The quality is amazing I am upgrading from a Canon XSI and love it. I also took a picture of a cherry tree that was about 30 yards away and then opened it up in Photoshop zoomed in and could see cherries that I could not even see with my eyes from the spot where I took the picture. I can not wait to get Canon 15-85mm f/3.5-5.6 EF-S Zoom Lens and than I will be in some serious business.Zoom Nikon AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Adobe Photoshop Autofocus Shutter (photography) button Camera Wide-angle lens Lens (optics)	doesnt zoom far enough at allZoom Nikon AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Adobe Photoshop Autofocus Shutter (photography) button Camera Wide-angle lens Lens (optics)	f you are looking to do mainly surf but this camera BODY ONLY + a 18-135mm 55-200mm or 75-300mmZoom Nikon AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Adobe Photoshop Autofocus Shutter (photography) button Camera Wide-angle lens Lens (optics)	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Zoom Nikon AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Adobe Photoshop Autofocus Shutter (photography) button Camera Wide-angle lens Lens (optics)	No autofocus when zooming while taking video pressing shutter button half way focuses the picture.Zoom Nikon AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Adobe Photoshop Autofocus Shutter (photography) button Camera Wide-angle lens Lens (optics)	 I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer.Zoom Nikon AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Adobe Photoshop Autofocus Shutter (photography) button Camera Wide-angle lens Lens (optics)	I literally took a picture of a surfer 75 Yards away with the kit lens and was able to zoom in in Photoshop and crop an up close beautiful detailed picture of the surfer. Zoom Nikon AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Adobe Photoshop Autofocus Shutter (photography) button Camera Wide-angle lens Lens (optics)	 I am impressed with the lens that comes with the camera for the wide angle aspect of it due to a lot of places I shoot pictures there are a lot of people and requires me to get close to get the shot I wantZoom Nikon AF-S DX Zoom-Nikkor 55-200mm f/4-5.6G Adobe Photoshop Autofocus Shutter (photography) button Camera Wide-angle lens Lens (optics)	 I also took a picture of a cherry tree that was about 30 yards away and then opened it up in Photoshop zoomed in and could see cherries that I could not even see with my eyes from the spot where I took the pictureZooming Autofocus Digital zoom	No autofocus when zooming 