Prune
The main reason to prune tomato plants is that it helps your plant direct its energy toward producing fruit rather than producing more foliage. The excess foliage will eventually grow into new branches that will form fruit, but most experienced growers ad
When a tomato plant is pruned properly, all of the foliage receives adequate sunlight, and the plant is able to photosynthesize (and, as a result, grow and produce fruit) more efficiently.
But not all types of tomatoes need to be pruned. If you are growing determinate tomatoes, you don't want to prune. The reason for this is that determinate plants develop all of their fruit at one time, so if you prune, you're sacrificing tomatoes for no r
Missouri pruning" which entails pinching out just the tip of the sucker, leaving one or two leaves behind for photosynthesis and to protect developing fruit from sun scald.
Of course, tomato pruning isn't a required chore, no matter which type of tomato you're growing. If you're not overly worried about growing large fruit, or trying to keep the plants under control, you don't need to worry about pruning.
Prune for plant structure and health Suckers form in the axils between the leaves and the main stem. Encourage a strong main stem by removing all suckers below the first flower cluster.
If you decide to prune, it's really a very simple process. What you are looking for are tomato "suckers," which grow in the "V" space between the main stem and the branches on your tomato plant. The first photo in this article shows what you'd be looking
The main reason to prune tomato plants is that it helps your plant direct its energy toward producing fruit rather than producing more foliage. The excess foliage will eventually grow into new branches that will form fruit
To remove a sucker, grab a growing tip by the base between the thumb and forefinger, and bend it back and forth until it snaps cleanly. This should ideally be done when the shoot is young and supple.
If you decide to prune, it's really a very simple process. What you are looking for are tomato "suckers," which grow in the "V" space between the main stem and the branches on your tomato plant. The first photo in this article shows what you'd be looking
You should remove all side shoots, which grow on the angle of side branches, and only leave the main stem growing upwards. Keep plant tied on to a firm stake, and water regularly every day if in a greenhouse. Give a feed of Tomorite once a week when fruit
Sit the pots close together get some miraclegro tomato plant fertilizer...and watch this video to increase production and size . It really works http://www.expertvillage.com/videos/low-…
You should remove all side shoots, which grow on the angle of side branches, and only leave the main stem growing upwards.
Next, do away with some of that thick, lush foliage. Start by removing the lower leaves to reveal a main stem, but keep the top growth to provide sun protection for future fruit. Not only will it provide good airflow and help to prevent disease, but I
Pinch out top of plant when it has 4 trusses.
What you are looking for are tomato "suckers," which grow in the "V" space between the main stem and the branches on your tomato plant. The first photo in this article shows what you'd be looking for.
When these suckers are 3 to 4 inches long, remove them by pinching them out or by cutting them back to the main stem with scissors.
Once the plants begin to grow, the real training begins. Allow only one stem to develop, and pluck off suckers (the sprouts that form between branches and the main stem) when they are very young. Remove all but two or three fruits from each plant. It's be

Fertilizer
Sit the pots close together get some miraclegro tomato plant fertilizer...and watch this video to increase production and size . It really works http://www.expertvillage.com/videos/low-…
You may just need to fertilize. Since it sounds like the plants are healthy, if feeding them doesn't do the trick then pollination (or lack there of) may be your problem. That's a harder problem to fix, but you could try gently wiping each flower with a
Sit the pots close together get some miraclegro tomato plant fertilizer...and watch this video to increase production and size . It really works http://www.expertvillage.com/videos/low-…
Tomatoes are generally heat-loving plants, some of which tend to grow tall, so give them full sun, rich soil, and a trellis or stake to grow on.
A little tough love will give your plants the jolt they need to start the reproductive portion of their life cycle. To begin, stop giving them nitrogen-rich fertilizers cold turkey, including compost and manure. If you’re not sure, check the nutrition
Give a feed of Tomorite once a week when fruit is beginning to set.
You may just need to fertilize. Since it sounds like the plants are healthy,
Use fertilizers with lower rates of nitrogen; higher rates cause tomato plants to sport lots of dark green leaves and produce few tomatoes.
If your soil is rich and well amended with compost, you won't need to fertilize.
Too much nitrogen makes plants grow leaves at the expense of fruit.
Choose whether to use chemical fertilizers. Do not use lawn fertilizer. The ratio of minerals in lawn fertilizer is for growing stems and leaves. Look for a vegetable fertilizer which is for stimulating fruit. Tomatoes can grow very well organically, prov
Over-fertilization can cause plants to grow too quickly, leaving them more susceptible to disease and insects. Remember that your goal in growing tomatoes is fruit, not just leaves. Fertilizers, especially when used in excess, or the wrong kind may cause
miraclegro tomato plant fertilizer.

health of plant
To avoid infecting your tomato plants, always prefer fingers over blades for removing shoots (the resulting wound can be easily infected).
If you smoke, wash hands thoroughly with soap and water before handling tomato plants. Tobacco smokers can easily infect tomato plants with 'Mosaic Virus."
It's a lot of work to coax your tomatoes into really packing on the pounds. First of all, you'll need to provide the best basic care: full sun, fluffy soil with plenty of organic matter, lots of space between plants, an inch of water per week, and support
Tomato hornworm: These huge, green caterpillars, which sometimes grow to 4 inches long, have a horn-like "tail." A few hungry hornworms can devastate a tomato plant quickly. If you see a hornworm that has what looks like grains of rice stuck on it, leave
Tomato fruitworm: This green, 1-inch-long caterpillar with white or yellow stripes feeds on foliage and fruits. They can be handpicked from plants.
Stink bug: These 1/2-inch-long gray or green shield-shaped insects primarily feed on fruits, causing hard, white or yellow spots on the tomato skin. To control stink bugs, keep your garden weed-free.
nce the plants begin to grow, the real training begins. Allow only one stem to develop, and pluck off suckers (the sprouts that form between branches and the main stem) when they are very young. Remove all but two or three fruits from each plant. It's bes
Tomatoes become infected when airborne spores land on wet plants, so your first line of defense is to keep leaves dry:
Fungicide prevents and controls late blight.
Tomatoes will fail to set fruit under the following conditions. Daytime temperatures higher than 90 F and/or nighttime temperatures less than 55 F. Have you had hot daytime temperatures or cold nighttime temperatures recently.  Too much nitrogen in the so

Cross-pollination
Make sure the planters are close together so that they cross-pollinate. They will never fruit very well if they are sitting by their lonesomes.
A little tough love will give your plants the jolt they need to start the reproductive portion of their life cycle. To begin,
Next, do away with some of that thick, lush foliage. Start by removing the lower leaves to reveal a main stem, but keep the top growth to provide sun protection for future fruit. Not only will it provide good airflow and help to prevent disease, but I
f feeding them doesn't do the trick then pollination (or lack there of) may be your problem. That's a harder problem to fix, but you could try gently wiping each flower with a small soft paintbrush every couple of days.
nsert a three-ringed metal cage into the soil around your tomato transplant. Keep branches inside the cage as the plant grows.
Make sure the planters are close together so that they cross-pollinate. They will never fruit very well if they are sitting by their lonesomes.
You don’t say which type you are growing but because you describe them as “huge,” I’ll hazard a guess and say indeterminate. There’s a chance that you are growing a slower variety and perhaps blossoms will appear shortly without any intervention. Howev

Put plants together
Sit the pots close together get some miraclegro tomato plant fertilizer...and watch this video to increase production and size . It really works http://www.expertvillage.com/videos/low-…
Space tomato plants 18 to 36 inches (45 to 90 cm) apart; space them half the suggested distance in warmer climates, especially if using tomato cages. The normal distance recommended is for plants allowed to bush out hugely on the ground, while planting cl
Space water out more after 10 days and ensure that plants are receiving 1 to 3 inches (2.5 cm to 7.6 cm) of rain weekly. If not, give each plant about 2 gallons (about 7.5 litres) per plant "per week", beginning by about the end of the second week after t
nce flowering begins to promote pollination of the blossoms (from one flower to another). According to the National Gardening Association, shaking the tomato plant increases fruit production by more evenly distributing pollen.
Sit the pots close together
Place a "zip-" of "snap-" seal sandwich type of bag over the nearly ripe fruit, very carefully

Stake
Keep plant tied on to a firm stake
Drive a wooden or metal stake into the ground next to the tomato transplant. Fasten the main trunk of the tomato to the stake with plastic ties.
How to grow tomatoes: Tips from the masters How to plant, fertilize, and water tomatoes for a great harvest of sweet, juicy fruit|Jim McCausland
ground, while caging let’s the
ith full sun and well-drained soil. For

Water regularly
water regularly every day if in a greenhous
give them a gallon of water per day. Do not miss or you will get blossom end rot caused by uneven watering.
Give each plant about 1 gallon (about 4 litres) of warm water (about 80 degrees F/ 27 degrees C) within ten minutes of transplanting to avoid transplant shock.
Water in the first 7 to 10 days after transplanting at about 16 ounces (about 500 ml) of warm water per plant every day.
Drip or soaker hose watering is better than overhead, which can encourage diseases that tomatoes are particularly prone to
Water the Tomato Plants Regularly.

Variety of species
Get good first-time growers’ varieties including Better Boy, Creole, Big Boy, Early Girl, Brandywine, Celebrity, Lemon Boy, or just about any cherry or grape tomato variety.
Grow two plants for each member of the family who will eat lots of tomatoes, as a rule of thumb. If you plan on canning tomatoes or making fresh and canned salsa, use up to four plants per person.
Tomatoes are incredibly diverse, which can make them a bit of a struggle to understand, but also incredibly fascinating plants to grow. Normal for a tomato depends on the type, the specific variety and your climate. There are several different types of
Discovering which tomato varieties are best for your garden will involve some experimenting, and your climate and personal taste will play a role, too. Some early types such as 'New Girl' and 'First Lady II' will be ready to pick about two months after yo

Cage
Insert a three-ringed metal cage into the soil around your tomato transplant. Keep branches inside the cage as the plant grows.
Consider using a tomato cage or a tall stake to support the tomato vine about 14 days after transplanting.
A stake should be at least 0.5 x 2 inches (1.3 x 5cm) boards and 6 to 8 feet (1.8 to 2.4 meters) long. Pound stakes about 12 to 24 inches (30 cm to 60 cm) deep, at least 2 inches (5 cm) away from the plant. Secure the plant to the stake using "loosely kno
Make your own tomato cages, if you like. Get a roll of 4 feet height (1.25 M) "welded-wire" garden fencing 2" X 4" rectangular openings (5cm X 10cm) garden fencing with -- or 4" square openings (10cm) -- and soon you can make it double height, tied to mor

Shake plant on flower
Just shake the plant when you see an open flower. That will "set" a tomato. Make sure they get east and south sun. Shade them from west sun to prevent fruit scald.

soil
Select a site with full sun and well-drained soil. For northern regions, is is VERY important that your site receives at least 6 hours of sun. For souther regions, light afternoon shade will help tomatoes survive and thrive.
Prepare the garden bed by adding lots of well rotted--not green--compost (5 to 8 pounds per square foot/25 to 40 kilograms per square meter) to the soil. Turn compost into the top 3 inches (6 to 8 cm). Tomatoes demand a growing medium rich in organic matt
Transplant the tomato deeply. Bury about 50 to 75% of the plant (especially for leggy plants, that became skinny in raising them before transplanting). It’s okay to bury some of its lower leaves. New roots will emerge along the buried stem, giving the pla
Wait a week or two after transplanting, and then place a mulch of straw, dried grass, or pine needles to control weeds and keep the soil moist during dry weather. The mulch should be about an inch (2.5 cm) thick and surround at least a circle 12 inches (a
If you're planting seeds (versus purchasing transplants), you'll want to start your seeds indoors 6 to 8 weeks before the average last spring frost date. See our post on "Tomatoes From Seed the Easy Way." Select a site with full sun and well-drained so
We've learned over the years that even minimal soil contact with your leaves can be bad news

Location
Choose a sunny spot to place the plants to transplant them. Place tomato plants in a site receiving full sun (7 hours or more daily). Tomatoes need lots of warm sunshine for optimum taste. ~ Caveat: In hot climates when the nights get to a low temperatur
Choose a sunny spot to place the plants to transplant them
Growing tomatoes indoors can mean an earlier crop.

Shade from sun
Shade them from west sun to prevent fruit scald.

Full sun
Tomatoes are generally heat-loving plants, some of which tend to grow tall, so give them full sun,

Picking
Pick fruit earlier to ripen indoors if you like: Fruit may be picked any time after it starts changing to its ripe color and set on a sunny windowsill. This will reduce the chances of it rotting on the vine or being eaten by a bird or squirrel.

too much fertilizer
Nitrogen is the nutrient most responsible for growing lush, vibrant leaves and stems. Tomato plants, especially the really big indeterminate vines need it most when they are young so that they can reach their full potential.  Unfortunately, too much n

Potting
Plant tomatoes using only a pot--for those who live with little ground space, or only a porch! 2Use a pot about 18-24 inches high, about 15-20 inches wide. Fill with soil, fertilizer, etc. 3Plant tomato and cover soil with plastic black cloth that lets wa

Useful background
Tomato plants are vines, and they have two basic ways of growing, called determinate and indeterminate. The vines of determinate varieties (sometimes called bush tomatoes) grow only 1 to 3 feet long, and the main stem and side stems produce about three fl

remove bottom leaves
Remove the Bottom Leaves.
Prune The main reason to prune tomato plants is that it helps your plant direct its energy toward producing fruit rather than producing more foliage. The excess foliage will eventually grow into new branches that will form fruit, but most experienced
